
================================================================================
FILE: FY1999 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2000-04-17.html)
================================================================================
X
No
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.    [ ]
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing price of these shares on the New
York Stock Exchange on March 31, 2000, was $146,684,895,928. For the purposes of this
disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, officers and
Page 1 of 25 (Form 10-K)
...
stock outstanding as of March 31, 2000.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2000, are incorporated by reference
into Parts I and II of this Form 10-K.
Portions of the registrant’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2000, are incorporated
by reference into Part III and IV of this Form 10-K.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION
This Form 10-K includes certain statements that may
be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements included or incorporated by reference
in this Form 10-K which address activities, events or developments that the Company
expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future
capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), expansion and other
development trends of industry segments in which the Company is active, business strategy,
expansion and growth of the Company’s business and operations and other such matters
are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed
in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds
...
All phases of the Company’s operations are
subject to influences outside its control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors
could materially affect the results of the Company’s operations. These factors
include: the cost of goods, competitive pressures, inflation, consumer debt levels,
currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates,
Year 2000 issues, unemployment levels, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market
and economic conditions. Forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company
...
BUSINESS
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(together with its subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as the "Company") is the
world’s largest retailer measured by total revenues. During the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2000, the Company had net sales of $165,013,000,000.
(a)
Development of Business
Domestically, at January 31,
...
2000, are included as Schedules A and B to Item 1 found on pages 11 and 12 of this annual
report.
In the third quarter of
fiscal 2000, the Company acquired ASDA Group PLC (ASDA), the third largest retailer in the
United Kingdom with, at that time, 229 stores. In June and July of 1999, the Company
acquired 29% of the outstanding ASDA shares on the open market and made a cash tender
offer for all remaining ASDA shares other than shares held by shareholders residing in
certain countries. As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company had
acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of ASDA. The acquired assets are included in the
Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2000, and five months of
results of ASDA operations are included in the Company’s consolidated statements of
income for the year ended January 31, 2000. ASDA reports on a December 31 year-end,
therefore ASDA results are consolidated on a trailing month reporting basis.
In fiscal 2000, the Company
increased its investment in Korea by acquiring most of the minority interest in its
operations in Korea from its joint venture partner. The Company anticipates that the
remaining minority interest will be acquired in early fiscal 2001.
See Note 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II found on
page 19 of this annual report for additional information regarding our acquisitions.
Internationally, at January
31, 2000, the Company operated units in Argentina(13), Brazil(14), Canada(166),
Germany(95), Korea(5) Mexico(458), Puerto Rico(15)and the United Kingdom (232), and, under
joint venture agreements in China(6). Tables summarizing information concerning additions
of units and square footage for international units operated since January 31, 1995 is
included as Schedule C to Item 1, found on pages 13 and 14 of this annual report.
Page 3 of 25 (Form 10-K)
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company joined with Accel
Partners, a Silicon Valley based venture capital firm, to form Wal-mart.com, Inc.
Wal-Mart.com, Inc. will base its operations in Palo Alto, California and was formed to
further develop and operate the internet retail site, Wal-Mart.com, and to further the
Company’s efforts to attract customers to the Company’s internet site with the
Wal-Mart name.
(b)
Financial information about the Company’s industry
segments
The Company is principally
engaged in the operation of mass merchandising stores, which serve our customers primarily
through the operation of three segments.
The Company identifies
segments based on management responsibility within the United States and geographically
for all international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes the Company’s
discount stores and Supercenters in the United States. The SAM’S Club segment
includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States. The International segment
includes all operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Korea, Mexico,
Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. For the financial results of the Company’s
operating segments, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated
by reference in Item 8 of Part II, found on page 19 of this annual report.
(c)
Narrative Description of Business
...
corporation, has its principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Although the Company was
incorporated in October 1969, the businesses conducted by its predecessors began in 1945
when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In
1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until
1962, the Company’s business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.
In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City (discount store) was opened. In fiscal
1984, the Company opened its first three SAM’S Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, its first
Wal-Mart Supercenter (combination full-line supermarket and discount store). In fiscal
1992, the Company began its first international initiative when the Company entered into a
joint venture in which it had a 50% interest with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (Cifra). The
Company’s international presence has continued to expand and at January 31, 2000, the
Company had international operations in eight countries and Puerto Rico. In February 2000,
Cirfa officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
WAL-MART STORES OPERATING SEGMENT
The Wal-Mart Stores segment,
which includes the Company’s discount stores and Supercenters in the United States,
had sales of $108,721,000,000, $95,395,000,000 and $83,820,000,000 for the three fiscal
years ended January 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. During the most recent fiscal
year, no single discount store or Supercenter location accounted for as much as 1% of
total Company sales or net income. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Page 4 of 25 (Form 10-K)
Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II, found on
page 19 of this annual report for additional information regarding our operating segments.
General.
The Company operates Wal-Mart discount stores in all 50 states. The average size of a
discount store is approximately 94,800 square feet. Wal-Mart Supercenters are located in
34 states and the average size of a Supercenter is 181,300 square feet. The Supercenter
prototypes range in size from 110,000 square feet to 241,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Wal-Mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of the Supercenters are
generally organized with 40 departments and offer a wide variety of merchandise, including
apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants. Each store also carries domestics,
fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home
furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories,
sporting goods, toys, pet food and accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty
aids, pharmaceuticals and jewelry. In addition, the stores offer an assortment of grocery
merchandise, with the grocery assortment in Supercenters being broader and including meat,
produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery.
Nationally advertised
merchandise accounts for a majority of sales in the stores. The Company markets lines of
merchandise under store brands including but not limited to "Sam’s American
Choice", "One Source", "Great Value", "Ol’ Roy"
and "Equate". The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed
brands, some of which include "Faded Glory", "Kathie Lee", "White
Stag", "Puritan", "Better Homes & Gardens", "Popular
...
22
Softgoods/domestics
20
Grocery,
candy and tobacco
18
Pharmaceuticals
...
Sporting
goods and toys
7
Health
and beauty aids
7
Stationery
3
...
of operation for nearly all Supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores are
24 hours each day. Hours of operation
Page 5 of 25 (Form 10-K)
for the remaining discount stores vary by location, but generally range
from 7:00a.m. to 11:00 p.m., six days a week, and from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays.
Wal-Mart discount stores and Supercenters maintain uniform prices, except where lower
prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily on a self-service,
cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover
while minimizing expenses. Bank credit card programs, operated without recourse to the
Company, are available in all stores.
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.
The Wal-Mart Stores operating segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company’s fourth
fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Wal-Mart discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and
specialty stores, many of which are national chains. Wal-Mart Supercenters compete with
other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets and specialty stores, many of
which are national or regional chains. The Company also competes with others for new store
sites. As of January 31, 2000, based on net sales, the Wal-Mart Stores segment ranked
first among all retail department store chains and among all discount department store
chains.
The Company’s
competitive position within the industry is largely determined by its ability to offer
value and service to its customers. The Company has many programs designed to meet the
competitive pressures within its industry. These include the Company’s "Everyday
Low Price", "Item Merchandising", "Store-Within-a-Store" and
"Price Rollbacks" programs. Although the Company believes it has had a major
influence in most of the retail markets in which its stores are located, there is no
assurance that this influence will continue.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2000, approximately 83% of the Wal-Mart discount stores’ and
Supercenters’ purchases were shipped from Wal-Mart’s 45 distribution centers,
ten of which are grocery distribution centers, and two of which are import distribution
centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to the stores from
suppliers. The 45 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United
States. Five distribution centers are located in each of Arkansas and Texas; three in each
of South Carolina and New York; two in each of California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana,
Mississippi, and Pennsylvania; and one in each of Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Iowa,
Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Tennessee, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin.
SAM’S CLUB OPERATING SEGMENT
The SAM’S Club segment,
which includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States, had sales of
$24,801,000,000, $22,881,000,000 and $20,668,000,000 for the three fiscal years ended
January 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income. See
Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8
of
Page 6 of 25 (Form 10-K)
Part II found on page 19 of this annual report for additional
information regarding our segments.
General.
The
Company operates SAM’S Clubs in 48 states. The average size of a SAM’S Club is
...
.
SAM’S
Clubs offer bulk displays of name brand hardgood merchandise, some softgoods and
institutional size grocery items, and selected items under the "Member's Mark"
store brand. Generally each SAM’S Club also carries software, electronic goods,
jewelry, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books. Most clubs have fresh food
departments, which include bakery, meat and produce. In addition, some clubs offer
one-hour photo, embroidery departments, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gas
stations.
...
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Food
32
Sundries
32
...
10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.
SAM’S Clubs are
membership only, cash-and-carry operations. However, a financial service credit card
program (Discover Card) is available in all clubs and the "SAM’S Direct"
commercial finance program and "Business Revolving Credit" are available to
qualifying business members. Also, a "Personal Credit" program is available to
qualifying club members. Any credit extended to members under these programs is without
recourse to the Company. Club members include businesses and those individuals who are
members of certain qualifying organizations, such as government and state employees and
credit union members. In fiscal 2000, business members paid an annual membership fee of
$30 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost.
The annual membership fee for an individual member is $35 for the primary membership card
with a spouse card available at no additional cost. During fiscal 2000, SAM’S Clubs
launched an Elite Membership program which offers additional benefits such as long
distance service, roadside assistance, internet access, home improvement, Telebank,
business insurance and financial planning, auto brokering, pharmacy discounts, and
entertainment savings guides to Elite Members. The annual membership fee for an Elite
Member is $100.
Page 7 of 25 (Form 10-K)
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.
The SAM’S Club operating segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company’s fourth
fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
SAM’S Clubs compete with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers,
wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. The Company also
competes with others for new club sites. As of January 31, 2000, based on domestic U.S.
net sales, the SAM’S Club segment ranked first among all warehouse clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2000, approximately 57% of the SAM’S Club purchases were shipped from
the Segment’s distribution facilities. The balance was shipped directly to the clubs
location from suppliers. Operationally, the principal focus is on crossdocking product,
while maintaining stored inventory is minimized. A combination of 6 Company owned and
operated facilities and 19 third-party owned and operated facilities comprise the overall
distribution structure for the SAM’s Club segment. Two of the Company owned and
operated facilities are located in Texas with one located in each of Arkansas, Colorado,
Minnesota and Indiana. Of the third party owned and operated facilities, two are located
in each of Illinois, Ohio and Texas and one in each of Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, Nevada, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania and Washington.
INTERNATIONAL OPERATING SEGMENT
The Company’s
International Segment is comprised of wholly owned operations in Argentina, Canada,
Germany, Korea, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom; of operations through joint ventures
in China; and of opertions through majority-owned subsidiaries in Brazil and Mexico. Sales
for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, were $22,728,000,000,
$12,247,000,000 and $7,517,000,000, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income. See Note
9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of
Part II found on page 19 of this annual report for additional information regarding our
segments.
General.
Operating formats vary by country, but include Wal-Mart discount stores in Canada and
Puerto Rico; Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Korea and Mexico; SAM’S Clubs
in Brazil, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Hypermarkets in Germany; Superamas (traditional
supermarket), Bodegas (discount store), Aurreras (combination store), Suburbias (specialty
department store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico and ASDA stores (combination grocery and
apparel store) in the United Kingdom. In March 2000, the Company announced the sale of
Page 8 of 25 (Form 10-K)
all three of the Company’s SAM’S Clubs in Argentina. The sale
is being made so that the Company can concentrate on expanding its Supercenter business
within Argentina.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy in the International operating segment is similar to that of
domestic segments in the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand
name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the
United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop
relationships with local vendors in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality
merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the international division vary by country
and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances
governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit
cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the
purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.
The International operating segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company’s fourth
fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different
national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic
conditions.
Competition.
The International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and
international chains in the discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale
sectors of the retail market. The segment’s competitive position is determined, to a
large extent, by its ability to offer its customers low prices on quality merchandise that
offers exceptional value. In Supercenters, our ability to effectively operate the food
departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets
where we operate.
Distribution.
The International segment operates export consolidation facilities in Los Angeles,
California; Jacksonville, Florida; Seattle, Washington; and Laredo, Texas in support of
product flow to its Mexican, Asian, and Latin American markets. Distribution facilities
are located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom
and Mexico which process and distribte both imported and domestic product to the operating
units. Operationally, the principal focus is on crossdocking product, while maintaining
stored inventory is minimized. During fiscal 2000, approximately 80% of the International
merchandise purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. The balance was
shipped directly to the stores from suppliers. A combination of Company owned and operated
facilities and third-party facilities comprises the overall distribution structure for
International logistics.
Page 9 of 25 (Form 10-K)
OTHER
The sales reported in the
"Other" category included in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II found on page 19 of this annual
report, result from sales to third parties by McLane Company, Inc. (McLane). McLane is a
wholly-owned wholesale distributor that sells its merchandise to a variety of retailers,
primarily in the convenience store industry. McLane also services Wal-Mart discount
stores, Supercenters and SAM’S Clubs. Sales to third parties for the three fiscal
years ended January 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $8,763,000,000, $7,111,000,000 and
$5,953,000,000 respectively. McLane offers a wide variety of grocery and non-grocery
products, including perishable and non-perishable items. The non-grocery products consist
primarily of tobacco products, general merchandise, health and beauty aids, toys and
stationery.
During fiscal 2000, McLane
divested its food distribution centers and constructed one new grocery distribution center
leaving 16 distribution centers from which its customers, including the Company, are
served. The distribution centers are located in the continental United States with two
located in each of California and Texas, and one each in Arizona, Alabama, Colorado,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Virginia and
Washington.
Employees (Associates).
As of January 31, 2000, the Company employed approximately 1,140,000
associates worldwide, with approximately 885,000 in the United States and 255,000
internationally. Most associates participate in incentive programs, which provide the
opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon the Company’s productivity
or profitability.
Page 10 of 25 (Form 10-K)
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A TO ITEM 1 -
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1995 THROUGH 2000
STORE
COUNT
...
Page 11 of 25 (Form 10-K)
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B TO ITEM 1 -
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1995 THROUGH 2000
STORE
COUNT
...
56,350,908
Page 12 of 25 (Form 10-K)
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C TO ITEM 1 - INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1995 THROUGH 2000
STORE COUNT
Fisal
Year
Ended
...
5
14
166
STORE COUNT
Fisal
Year
Ended
China
Germany
Korea
Wal-Mart
...
6
95
5
STORE COUNT
Fisal Year
Ended
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
United
...
supermarkets), and 204 Vips (restaurants).
Page 13 of 25 (Form 10-K)
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C TO ITEM 1 - INTERNATIONAL NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1995 THROUGH 2000
NET SQUARE
FOOTAGE
...
FOOTAGE
Fisal Year
Ended
China
Germany
Korea
Net
...
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fisal Year
Ended
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
United
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number and location of
domestic and international Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters and SAM’S Clubs is
incorporated by reference to the table under the caption "Fiscal 2000 End of Year
Store Counts" on page 6 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 31, 2000.
The Company owns 1,352 of
the properties on which domestic discount stores and Supercenters are located and 295 of
the properties on which domestic SAM’S Clubs are located. In some cases, the Company
owns the land associated with leased buildings. New buildings, both leased and owned, are
constructed by independent contractors.
The remaining buildings in
which its present domestic locations are located are either leased from a commercial
property developer, leased pursuant to a sale/leaseback arrangement or leased from a local
governmental entity through an industrial revenue bond transaction. All of the
Company’s leases for its stores provide for fixed annual rentals and, in many cases,
the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
Domestically, the Company
operated 45 Wal-Mart distribution facilities and 16 McLane distribution facilities as of
January 31, 2000. These distribution facilities are primarily owned by the Company, and
several are subject to mortgages granted to secure loans. Some of the distribution
facilities are leased under industrial development bond financing arrangements and provide
the option of purchasing these facilities at the end of the lease term for nominal
amounts.
The Company owns office
facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as the home office for the Company and an
office facility in Temple, Texas which serves as the home office for McLane.
Internationally, the Company
has a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which the operating
units are located. The Company owns seven properties in Argentina, nine properties in
Brazil, 11 properties in Canada, one property in China through joint venture, 19
properties in Germany, five properties in Korea, 186 properties in Mexico, two properties
in Puerto Rico  and 83 properties in the Undited Kingdom in which the operating units
are located, with the remaining units in each country being leased.
The Company utilizes both
owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which it conducts
business.
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
...
incidental to the Company’s business.
Page 15 of 25 (Form 10-K)
The Company recently opened
a Supercenter in Honesdale, Pennsylvania. In February of 1999, the Company settled claims
made by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) that a
subcontractor’s acts and omissions relating to the construction of the Supercenter
led to excess erosion and sedimentation of a nearby creek. In the settlement, Wal-Mart
agreed to pay a fine of $25,000 and to perform a $75,000 community environmental project
in the Honesdale area. The Company is negotiating settlement of a claim by the United
States Army Corps of Engineers that the construction resulted in the filling of
approximately 0.76 acres in excess of the permitted fill area of waters and wetlands at
the site. The proposed settlement with the Corps will require Wal-Mart to pay $200,000 to
...
easements. The Company has been reimbursed for these amounts by the contractor on the
project.
The United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is threatening to bring suit against the Company and
five of its contractors over alleged violations of a 1992 storm water permit issued with
respect to various Wal-Mart development sites in Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. The EPA
has presented the Company with penalty calculations of $5.6 million.
ITEM 4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
...
Held Since
Age
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board
1992
55
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee of the Board. Prior to
January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer
2000
64
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to
January 2000, he served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January
1999, he served as  President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores
Division. Prior to January 1998, he served as Executive Vice President - Merchandising.
Prior to October 1995, he served as Executive Vice President Logistics. Prior to that, he
served as Senior Vice President- Logistics.
2000
51
Donald G. Soderquist
Senior Vice Chairman of the Board. Prior to January
1999, he served  as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer.
1999
66
Thomas M. Coughlin
...
Executive Vice President and President and Chief
Executive Officer of SAM’S Club Division. Prior to October 1998, he was retired and
served as a consultant to various organizations. Prior to June 1994, he served as
President and Chief Executive Officer of Pace Membership Warehouse, a Division of K-Mart
Corporation.
1998
55
John B. Menzer
Executive Vice President and President and Chief
Executive Officer of Wal-Mart International Division. Prior to June 1999, he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to September 1995, he served
as President and Chief Operating Officer of Ben Franklin Retail Stores, Inc.
1999
49
Thomas M. Schoewe
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY
AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the information "Number of
Shareholders" under the caption "11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 18 and
19, and all the information under the captions "Market Price of Common Stock",
"Listings - Stock Symbol: WMT" and "Dividends Paid Per Share" on page
41 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2000.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "11-Year
Financial Summary" on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended January 31, 2000.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
...
The information required by
this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
"Management’s Discussion and Analysis" on pages 20 through 25 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2000.
ITEM 7a.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT
MARKET RISK
...
sub-caption "Market Risk" of the caption "Management’s Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 21 through 24 of the Annual
Page 18 of 25 (Form 10-K)
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2000.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by
this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the captions
"Consolidated Statements of Income", "Consolidated Balance Sheets",
"Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity", "Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows", "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and
"Report of Independent Auditors" on pages 26 through 40 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2000.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
REGISTRANT
Information required by this
item with respect to the Company’s directors and compliance by the Company’s
directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company’s Common
Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is furnished by
incorporation by reference to all information under the captions entitled "Nominees
for Directors" on pages 2 through 4 and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" on page 15 of the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for
its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Friday, June 2, 2000 (the "Proxy
Statement"). The information required by this item with respect to the Company’s
executive officers is included as Item 4A of Part I found on pages 16 through 18 of this
annual report.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by
this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
entitled "Compensation of Directors" on page 4, "Compensation and
Nominating Committee Report on Executive Compensation" on pages 6 through 9, and
"Summary Compensation", "Option Grants In Last Fiscal Year", and
"Option Exercises and Fiscal Year End Option Values" on pages 10 through 12 of
the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT
The information required by
this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
entitled "Stock Ownership", subcaptions "Ownership of Major
Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" on pages 13 through
15 of the Proxy Statement.
Page 19 of 25 (Form 10-K)
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by
this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
"Related-Party Transactions with Wal-Mart" on page 6 of the Proxy Statement.
...
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage
and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1,
1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal
Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company
and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3
(File Number 33-11394).
...
of Chicago, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).
+10(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
the Company, as amended, for the year ended January 31, 1986.
+10(b)
...
(File Number 33-55325).
Page 21 of 25 (Form 10-K)
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8
(File Number 333-24259).
+10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
the Company for the year ended January 31, 1996.
+10(i)
...
of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) from the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1998.
+10(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 1998 is filed
herewith as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.
+10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan of 1998 is
filed herewith as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.
*12
Statement re computation of ratios
*13
All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6,
7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended January 31, 2000.
*21
List of the Company’s Subsidiaries
*23
Consent of Independent Auditors
*27
Financial Data Schedule
*Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
+Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
(b)
...
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent
Auditors:
...
January 31, 2000 and 1999
27
Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity for each of the
three years in the period ended
January 31, 2000
28
...
Not Covered by Report of Independent
Auditors:
Note 10 - Quarterly
Financial Data
(Unaudited)
39
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not
...
DATE:    April 15, 2000
/s/S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board
DATE:    April 15, 2000
/s/David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee
of the Board
DATE:    April 15, 2000
/s/Donald G. Soderquist
Donald G. Soderquist
Senior Vice Chairman of the
Board and Director
DATE:    April 15, 2000
/s/Thomas M. Schoewe
[Total relevant lines: 723]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2000 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2001-04-10.html)
================================================================================
x
No
o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
o
The aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing price of
these shares on the New York Stock Exchange on March 31, 2001, was $134,499,545,923. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant
has assumed that its directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 4,470,462,986 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2001.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2001, are incorporated by reference into Parts I
and II of this Form 10-K.
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 1, 2001, are incorporated by
reference into Part III and IV of this Form 10-K.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION
This Form 10-K includes certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such
things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), expansion and other development trends of industry segments in which the Company is active, business strategy, expansion and growth of the Company's business and
operations and other such matters are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, a
number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by or on behalf of the Company. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings
or statements made by or on behalf of the Company.
All phases of the Company's operations are subject to influences outside its control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors could materially
affect the results of the Company's operations. These factors include: the cost of goods, competitive pressures, inflation, consumer debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, unemployment
levels, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market and economic conditions. Forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company are based on a knowledge of its business and the environment in which it operates, but because of the
factors listed above, actual results may differ from those in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made are qualified by these and other cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the
actual results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that they will have the expected consequences to or effects on the Company or its business or operations.
...
ITEM 1
.
BUSINESS
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as the "Company") is the world's largest retailer measured
by total revenues. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2001, the Company had net sales of $191,329,000,000.
(a)
Development of Business
Domestically, at January 31, 2001, the Company operated 1,736 discount stores, 888 Supercenters, 475 SAM'S Clubs and 19 Neighborhood Markets.
Internationally, at January 31, 2001, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (20), Canada (174), Germany (94), Korea (6) Mexico (499), Puerto Rico (15) and the United Kingdom (241), and, under joint venture agreements, in China (11).
Tables summarizing information concerning additions of units and square footage for domestic discount stores, Supercenters, SAM'S Clubs, Neighborhood Markets and international units in fiscal years 1996 through 2001, are included as Schedules A, B
and C to Item 1 found on pages 11 through 15 of this annual report.
On April 19, 2000, the Company purchased 271.3 million shares of stock in
Wal-Mart de Mexico S.A. de C.V. (formerly Cifra S.A. de C.V.) at a total cash cost of $587 million. This transaction increased the Company's ownership percentage in Wal-Mart de Mexico S.A. de C.V. by approximately 6% and resulted in recognition of
goodwill of $422 million, which is being amortized over a 40-year life.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company completed its
acquisition of all the outstanding common shares of ASDA Group PLC (ASDA), the third largest retailer in the United Kingdom which had, at the time of the acquisition, 229 stores. The acquired assets are included in the Company's consolidated balance
sheet as of January 31, 2000, and five months of results of ASDA operations are included in the Company's consolidated statements of income for the year ended January 31, 2000. ASDA reports on a December 31 year-end, therefore ASDA results are
consolidated on a trailing month reporting basis.
See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference in Item 8 of Part II found on page 20 of this annual report for additional information regarding our acquisitions.
(b)
Financial information about the Company's
industry segments
The Company is principally engaged in the operation of mass merchandising
stores, which serve our customers primarily through the operation of three segments.
The Company identifies segments based on management responsibility within
the United States and geographically for all international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes the Company's discount stores, Supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in the United States and Wal-Mart.com, Inc. ("Wal-Mart.com"). The
SAM'S Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States. The International segment includes all operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The Other segment
includes McLane Company, Inc. (McLane). For the financial results of the Company's operating segments and the total assets of the segments, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II,
found on page 20 of this annual report.
(c)
Narrative Description of
Business
The Company, a Delaware corporation, has its principal offices in
Bentonville, Arkansas. Although the Company was incorporated in October 1969, the businesses conducted by its predecessors began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother,
James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, the Company's business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City (a discount store) was opened. In fiscal
1984, the Company opened its first three SAM'S Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, its first Wal-Mart Supercenter (a combination full-line supermarket and discount store). In fiscal 1992, the Company began its first international initiative when the Company
entered into a joint venture in which it had a 50% interest with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (Cifra). In fiscal 1998, the Company acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A.
de C.V. The Company's international presence has continued to expand and at January 31, 2001, the Company had international operations in eight countries and Puerto Rico.
WAL-MART STORES OPERATING SEGMENT
The Wal-Mart Stores segment, had sales of $121,889,000,000,
$108,721,000,000 and $95,395,000,000 for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store or Supercenter location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company
sales or net income. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II, found on page 20 of this annual report for additional information regarding our operating segments.
General.
The Company operates Wal-Mart discount stores
in all 50 states. The average size of a discount store is approximately 95,262 square feet. Discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 155,000 square feet. Wal-Mart Supercenters are located in 40 states and
the average size of a Supercenter is approximately 183,106 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 108,000 square feet to 241,000 square feet. The Company operates Neighborhood Market stores in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. Neighborhood Market
stores range in size from 40,000 square feet to 64,000 square feet with an average size of approximately 47,271 square feet. Wal-Mart.com is a majority-owned subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. with offices in Brisbane, California and was formed in
fiscal 2000 to further develop the Company's e-commerce initiatives and internet business.
Merchandise.
Wal-Mart discount stores and the general
merchandise area of the Supercenters are generally organized with 40 departments and offer a wide variety of merchandise, including apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants. Each store also carries domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery
and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids,
pharmaceuticals and jewelry. In addition, the stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise, with the grocery assortment in Supercenters being broader and including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery.
Nationally advertised merchandise accounts for a majority of sales in the
stores. The Company markets lines of merchandise under store brands including but not limited to "Sam's American Choice", "One Source", "Great Value", "Ol' Roy" "Puritan", and "Equate". The
Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include "Faded Glory", "Kathie Lee", "White Stag, "Popular Mechanics", "Catalina" and "McKids".
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2001, sales in discount stores
and Supercenters (which are subject to seasonal variance) by product category were as follows:
...
21
Softgoods/domestics
19
Grocery, candy and tobacco
19
Pharmaceuticals
10
...
8
Sporting goods and toys
7
Health and beauty aids
7
Stationery
3
...
100%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all
Supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining discount stores vary by location, but generally
range from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., six days a week, and from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays. Wal-Mart discount stores and Supercenters maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are
primarily on a self-service, cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover while minimizing expenses. Bank credit card programs, operated without recourse to the Company, are available in all
stores.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Wal-Mart Stores
operating segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Wal-Mart discount stores compete with
other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national chains. Wal-Mart Supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets and specialty stores, many of which are national or
regional chains. The Company also competes with others for new store sites. As of January 31, 2001, based on net sales, the Wal-Mart Stores segment ranked first among all retail department store chains and among all discount department store
chains.
The Company's competitive position within the industry is largely
determined by its ability to offer value and service to its customers. The Company has many programs designed to meet the competitive pressures within its industry. These include the Company's "Everyday Low Price", "Item
Merchandising", "Store-Within-a-Store" "Price Rollbacks", and "Store of the Community" programs. Although the Company believes it has had a major influence in most of the retail markets in which its stores are
located, there is no assurance that this influence will continue.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2001, approximately 84% of
the Wal-Mart discount stores' and Supercenters' purchases were shipped from Wal-Mart's 55 distribution centers, 16 of which are grocery distribution centers, and three of which are import distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased
was shipped directly to the stores from suppliers. The 55 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United States. Six distribution centers are located in Texas; five in each of Arkansas and Georgia; four in New York; three in
South Carolina; two in each of Alabama, California, Florida, Indiana, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin; and one in each of Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, New Mexico, North Carolina,
Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon and Tennessee. During fiscal 2001, Wal-Mart.com utilized two third party distribution centers, one in Utah and one in Ohio to fulfill orders for goods placed through its website.
SAM'S CLUB OPERATING SEGMENT
The SAM'S Club segment had sales of $26,798,000,000, $24,801,000,000 and
$22,881,000,000 for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. During the most recent
fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II found on page 20 of this annual report for
additional information regarding our segments.
General.
The Company operates SAM'S Clubs in 48 states.
The average size of a SAM'S Club is approximately 122,107 square feet, and club sizes generally range between 90,000 and 160,000 square feet of building area.
Merchandise
.
SAM'S Clubs offer bulk displays of name
brand hardgood merchandise, some softgoods and institutional size grocery items, and selected items under the "Member's Mark" store brand. Generally each SAM'S Club also carries software, electronic goods, jewelry, sporting goods, toys,
tires, stationery and books. Most clubs have fresh food departments, which include bakery, meat and produce. In addition, some clubs offer one-hour photo, embroidery departments, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gas stations.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2001, sales in the clubs (which
are subject to seasonal variance) by product category were as follows:
CATEGORY
...
OF SALES
Sundries
32
Food
31
Hardlines
21
...
6
100%
Operations.
Operating hours vary among SAM'S Clubs, but
they are generally open Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
SAM'S Clubs are membership only, cash-and-carry operations. However, a
financial service credit card program (Discover Card) is available in all clubs and the "SAM'S Direct" commercial finance program and "Business Revolving Credit" are available to qualifying business members. Also, a
"Personal Credit" program is available to qualifying club members. Any credit extended to members under these programs is without recourse to the Company. Club members include businesses and those individuals who are members of certain
qualifying organizations, such as federal and state government employees and credit union members. In fiscal 2001, business members paid an annual membership fee of $30 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional
cost. The annual membership fee for an individual member is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. SAM'S Clubs Elite Membership program offers additional benefits such as long distance service,
roadside assistance, internet access, home improvement,
Telebank, business insurance and financial planning, auto brokering, pharmacy discounts, and entertainment savings guides. The annual membership fee for an Elite Member is $100.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The SAM'S Club
operating segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
SAM'S Clubs compete with other warehouse
clubs, as well as with discount retailers, wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. The Company also competes with others for new club sites. As of January 31, 2001, based on domestic U.S. net sales, the SAM'S Club
segment ranked first among all warehouse clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2001, approximately 59% of
the SAM'S Club purchases were shipped from the Segment's distribution facilities. The balance was shipped directly to the clubs location from suppliers. The principal focus of SAM's Clubs distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while
stored inventory is minimized. A combination of 6 Company owned and operated facilities and 17 third-party owned and operated facilities constitute the overall distribution structure for the SAM's Club segment. Two of the Company owned and operated
facilities are located in Texas with one located in each of Arkansas, Colorado, Minnesota and Indiana. Of the third party owned and operated facilities, two are located in each of Illinois and Pennsylvania and one in each of Arizona, California,
Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Texas and Washington.
INTERNATIONAL OPERATING SEGMENT
The Company's International Segment comprises the Company's wholly owned
operations in Argentina, Canada, Germany, Korea, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom; operations through joint ventures in China; and of operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in Brazil and Mexico. The International Segment's sales for the
three fiscal years ended January 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, were $32,100,000,000, $22,728,000,000 and $12,247,000,000, respectively. Sales for the United Kingdom operation during fiscal 2001 and 2000 were $14,500,000,000 and $7,200,000,000,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income. At January 31, 2001 and 2000, International segment long lived assets, primarily plant, property and equipment and
goodwill, totaled $19,400,000,000 and $19,600,000,000 of which $12,400,000,000 and $13,100,000,000, respectively were held in the United Kingdom. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II
found on page 20 of this annual report for additional information regarding our segments.
General.
Operating formats vary by country, but include Wal-Mart discount stores in Canada and Puerto Rico;
Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Korea, Mexico and the United Kingdom; SAM'S Clubs in Brazil, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Hypermarkets in Germany; Superamas (traditional supermarket), Bodegas (discount store), Aurreras (combination
store), Suburbias (specialty department store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico and ASDA stores (combination grocery and apparel store) in the United Kingdom.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International operating segment is similar to that of domestic
segments in the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in
which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local vendors in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the international division vary by country and by
individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to
facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The International operating segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.
Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic
conditions.
Competition.
The International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in
the discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale sectors of the retail market. The segment's competitive position is determined, to a large extent, by its ability to offer its customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers
exceptional value. In Supercenters, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment's competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
The International segment operates export consolidation facilities in Los Angeles, California;
Jacksonville, Florida; Seattle, Washington; and Laredo, Texas in support of product flow to its Mexican, Asian, and Latin American markets. 37 distribution facilities are located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Puerto Rico, the United
Kingdom and Mexico. Through these facilities the Company processes and distributes both imported and domestic product to the operating units. During fiscal 2001, approximately 70% of the International merchandise purchases flowed through these
distribution facilities. The balance was shipped directly to the stores from suppliers. A combination of Company
owned and operated facilities and third-party facilities comprises the overall distribution structure for International logistics.
OTHER
The sales reported in the "Other" category result from sales to third parties by McLane. McLane is a wholly-owned wholesale distributor
that sells its merchandise to a variety of retailers, primarily in the convenience store industry. McLane also services Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM'S Clubs. McLane offers a wide variety of grocery and
non-grocery products, including perishable and non-perishable items. The non-grocery products consist primarily of tobacco products, general merchandise, health and beauty aids, toys and stationery. Segment sales for the "Other" segment
for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $10,542,000,000, $8,763,000,000 and $7,111,000,000 respectively.
During fiscal 2001, McLane acquired substantially all of the business and domestic distribution assets of AmeriServe Food Distribution, Inc.
(AmeriServe). AmeriServe is a leading distributor of food and restaurant supply products to the quick service food industry. The acquisition was not significant to the Company's financial position or results of operations for fiscal 2001. However,
included in the acquisition were 17 leased distribution centers. These distribution centers are located two each in California and Texas and one in each of Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,
Tennessee, Oregon, Virginia and Wisconsin. Also, during fiscal 2001 McLane operated 16 grocery distribution centers. These distribution centers are located as follows: two in each of California and Texas, and one each in Arizona, Alabama, Colorado,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Virginia and Washington.
Employees (Associates).
As of January 31, 2001, the Company employed approximately 1,244,000 associates worldwide, with approximately 962,000 associates in the United States and 282,000 associates in foreign countries.
Most associates participate in incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon the Company's productivity or profitability.
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A TO ITEM 1 - WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1996 THROUGH 2001
STORE COUNT
Fiscal Year
Ended
Wal-Mart
...
(2) Includes conversions or relocations of Wal-Mart discount stores to Wal-Mart Supercenters
(3) Total opened net of conversions of Wal-Mart discount stores to Wal-Mart Supercenters
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE A TO ITEM 1 - WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1996 THROUGH 2001
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal Year
...
328,870,871
(1) Includes square footage of Wal-Mart Supercenters created by the conversion or relocation of Wal-Mart discount stores.
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE B TO ITEM 1 - SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1996 THROUGH 2001
STORE COUNT
Fiscal Year
Ended
SAM'S Clubs
Jan 31,
Opened
Closed
...
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal Year
Ended
SAM'S Clubs
Jan 31,
Net Additions
Total
...
1,773,830
58,000,938
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C TO ITEM 1 - INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1996 THROUGH 2001
STORE COUNT
Fiscal
Year
Ended
...
Fiscal
Year
Ended
China
Germany
Korea
Wal-Mart
...
Fiscal
Year
Ended
Mexico
Puerto Rico
Wal-Mart
Supercenters
...
(restaurants).
** One Germany unit was damaged by fire in fiscal 2001.
WAL-MART STORES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE C TO ITEM 1 - INTERNATIONAL NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1996 THROUGH 2001
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal
...
Fiscal
Year
Ended
China
Germany
Korea
Net
...
Fiscal
Year
Ended
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United Kingdom
Net
...
1,783,674
452,787
19,278,021
* Reduction is the result of the sale of three SAM'S Clubs.
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number and location of domestic and international Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters and SAM'S
Clubs is incorporated by reference to the table under the caption "Fiscal 2001 End of Year Store Counts" on page 6 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
The Company owns 1,380 of the properties on which domestic discount stores
and Supercenters are located and 282 of the properties on which domestic SAM'S Clubs are located. In some cases, the Company owns the land associated with leased buildings. New buildings, both leased and owned, are constructed by independent
contractors.
The remaining buildings in which its present domestic locations are located are either leased from a
commercial property developer, leased pursuant to a sale/leaseback arrangement or leased from a local governmental entity through an industrial revenue bond transaction. All of the Company's leases for its stores provide for fixed annual rentals
and, in many cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
Domestically, the Company operated 55 Wal-Mart distribution facilities and 33 McLane distribution
facilities as of January 31, 2001. With the exception of the AmeriServe facilities, the Company primarily owns these distribution facilities, and several are subject to mortgages granted to secure loans. Some of the distribution facilities are
leased under industrial development bond financing arrangements and provide the option of purchasing these facilities at the end of the lease term for nominal amounts.
The Company owns office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as the home office for the
Company and an office facility in Temple, Texas which serves as the home office for McLane.
Internationally, the Company has a combination of owned and leased
properties in each country in which the operating units are located. The Company owns eight properties in Argentina, 13 properties in Brazil, 14 properties in Canada, one property in China through joint venture, 19 properties in Germany, six
properties in Korea, 212 properties in Mexico, four properties in Puerto Rico and 158 properties in the United Kingdom in which the operating units are located, with the remaining units in each country being leased.
The Company utilizes both owned and leased properties for office
facilities in each country in which it conducts business.
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
...
Neither the Company nor any of its properties is subject to
any material pending legal proceeding, other than routine litigation incidental to the Company's business.
The Company recently opened a Supercenter in Honesdale, Pennsylvania. In February 1999, the
Company settled claims made by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) that a subcontractor's acts and omissions relating to the construction of the Supercenter led to excess erosion and sedimentation of a nearby creek. In the
settlement, the Company agreed to pay a fine of $25,000 and to perform a $75,000 community environmental project in the Honesdale area. The Company is negotiating settlement of a claim by the United States Army Corps of Engineers that the
construction resulted in the filling of approximately 0.76 acres in excess of the permitted fill area of waters and wetlands at the site. The proposed settlement with the Corps will require the Company to pay $200,000 to a non-profit corporation for
the purchase of local wetlands conservation areas and easements. The Company has been reimbursed for these amounts by the contractor on the project.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is threatening to bring suit against
the Company and five of its contractors over alleged violations of a 1992 storm water permit issued with respect to various Wal-Mart development sites in Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. The EPA has presented the Company with penalty calculations of
$5.6 million.
During the fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against the Company in the State
of Connecticut Superior Court for the Judicial District of Hartford for various violations of state environmental laws alleging the Company failed to adequately permit and or maintain records relating to storm water management practices at 12
stores. The suit seeks to ensure the Company's compliance with the general permit for the discharge of stormwater associated with those stores. The Company will vigorously defend against these allegations.
ITEM 4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the last
...
Held Since
Age
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board
1992
56
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee of the Board. Prior to January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company
2000
65
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
President and Chief Executive
Officer. Prior to January 2000,
he served as
Vice Chairman and
Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Prior to
January 1999, he served as
President and Chief Executive
...
Executive Vice President and
President and Chief Executive
Officer of
Wal-Mart International
Division. Prior to June 1999,
he served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information
"Number of Shareholders of record" under the caption "11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 16 and 17, and all the information under the captions "Market Price of Common Stock", "Listings - Stock Symbol: WMT"
and "Dividends Paid Per Share" on page 41 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under
the caption "11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 18 through 23 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
ITEM 7a.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" of the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 19 through 22 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income", "Consolidated Balance Sheets", "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity", "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows", "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Auditors" on pages 24 through 40 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors and compliance by
the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's Common Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the captions
entitled "Nominees for Directors" on pages 2 and 3 and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 13 of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Friday,
June 1, 2001 (the "Proxy Statement"). The information required by this item with respect to the Company's executive officers is included as Item 4 of Part I found on pages 18 and 19 of this annual report.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled "Compensation of Directors" on page 4, "Compensation and Nominating Committee Report on Executive Compensation" on pages 6 through 8, and "Summary Compensation", "Option
Grants In Last Fiscal Year", and "Option Exercises and Fiscal Year End Option Values" on pages 9 through 11 of the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled "Stock Ownership", subcaptions "Ownership of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" on pages 11 through 13 of the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information
under the caption "Related-Party Transactions with Wal-Mart" on page 5 of the Proxy Statement.
PART IV
...
4(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as
of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II,
Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4(d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).
...
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 9, 1992, to the Indenture dated as of April 1, 1991, between the Company and The First National Bank of Chicago,
Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).
+10(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company,
as amended, for the year ended January 31, 1986. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission's Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission's file no. 1-6991.
+10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1984 is incorporated herein by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 2-94358).
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number
33-55325).
+10(f)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number
333-24259).
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for
the year ended January 31, 1996. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission's Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission's file no. 1-6991.
+10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
...
1997 Amendment to the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the year ended January 31, 1998.
+10(k)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 1998 is filed herewith as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.
+10(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan of 1998 is filed herewith as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K.
*12
Statement re computation of ratios
*13
All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 31, 2001.
*21
List of the Company's Subsidiaries
...
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent
Auditors:
...
January 31, 2001 and 2000
Consolidated Statements of
26
Shareholders' Equity for each of the
three years in the period ended
January 31, 2001
Consolidated Statements of Cash
...
Statements, except Note 10
Not Covered by Report of Independent
Auditors:
Note 10 - Quarterly Financial Data
39
(Unaudited)
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required
...
/s/
S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE:                April 10, 2001
/s/
David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee
Of the Board and Director
DATE:                April 10, 2001
/s/
Donald G. Soderquist
Donald G. Soderquist
Senior Vice Chairman of the
Board and Director
DATE:                April 10, 2001
/s/
[Total relevant lines: 518]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2001 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2002-04-15.html)
================================================================================
X
No
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
The aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant
held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing price of these shares on
the New York Stock Exchange on March 28, 2002, was $ 165,992,346,506.  For the
purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, officers
and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the
...
The registrant had 4,451,225,876 shares of common stock outstanding as
of March 31, 2002.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of
this Form 10-K.
Portions of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 7, 2002, are incorporated by reference into
Part III and IV of this Form 10-K.
Page 1 of 23
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION
This Form 10-K includes and incorporates by reference certain
statements that may be deemed to be ‘‘forward-looking statements’’
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The
forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K which
...
subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
expects
or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including:
future capital expenditures, including the amount and nature of those expenditures;
expansion and other development trends of industry segments in which we and our
subsidiaries are active;
our business strategy;
our financing strategy;
...
the cost of electricity and other energy requirements;
competitive pressures;
inflation;
consumer debt levels;
currency exchange fluctuations;
trade restrictions;
changes in tariff and freight rates;
...
.
BUSINESS
General.
We are the world’s largest retailer as measured by total revenues.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, we had net sales of $217.8 billion. We
maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8
th
Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716.
Although Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in October
1969, the businesses conducted by our predecessors began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened
a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James
L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our
predecessors’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In
that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, was opened. In
fiscal 1984, we opened our first three SAM’S Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, our first
Wal-Mart Supercenter, a format that combines a full-line supermarket with a general
merchandise discount store. We currently operate in all 50 states in the United States.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we
entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we had a 50% interest, with Cifra S.A. de
C.V. In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra as described below, and
in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand and at January 31,
2002, we had international operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, South Korea,
Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and, through joint venture agreements, in
China.
The Development of Our Company in Recent Years.
At January 31, 2002, we operated in the United States, 1,647 discount
stores, 1,066 Supercenters, 500 SAM’S Clubs and 31 Neighborhood Markets.
Internationally, at January 31, 2002, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil
(22), Canada (196), Germany (95), South Korea (9) Mexico (551), Puerto Rico (17) and the
United Kingdom (250), and, under joint venture agreements, in China (19). Our growth,
measured both by our net sales and net income, occurs in large measure as a result of the
increase in the number of stores we have, both in the United States and internationally,
and the increase from year to year of the sales in our existing stores. The following
tables provide summary information concerning the additions of units and square footage
for domestic discount stores, Supercenters, SAM’S Clubs, Neighborhood Markets and
international units in each of our fiscal years from 1997 through 2002.
Page 3 of 3
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1997 THROUGH 2002
STORE COUNT
Fiscal Year
Ended
January 31
...
Supercenters.
Total opened net of conversions of Wal-Mart discount stores to Wal-Mart Supercenters.
Page 4 of 23
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1997 THROUGH 2002
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal Year
...
(2) Includes square footage of Wal-Mart Supercenters created by the
conversion or relocation of Wal-Mart discount stores.
Page 5 of 23
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1997 THROUGH 2002
CLUB COUNT
...
3,777,865
61,778,803
Page 6 of 23
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1997 THROUGH 2002
STORE COUNT
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
...
2
22
196
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal
...
19
95
9
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
Fiscal
...
either Supercenters or Bodegas.
** One Germany unit was damaged by fire and closed in fiscal 2001.
Page 7 of 23
INTERNATIONAL NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1997 THROUGH 2002
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal
...
22,968,258
Fiscal
Year
China
Germany
South
Korea
...
1,697,781
Fiscal
Year
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
United
...
2,104,229
942,165
20,220,186
Fiscal 2002 net additions contain an adjustment to the previously
reported square footage based on a reassessment of the various foreign country totals.
This adjustment has been made to state the total square footage amounts at January 31,
2002. The adjustments made on an individual country basis are: for Canada a reduction of
21,506 square feet, for China an increase of 27,849 square feet, for Germany an increase
of 4,419,932 square feet, for South Korea an increase of 300,645 square feet, for Mexico
an increase of 4,293,932 square feet and for the United Kingdom an increase of 134,088
square feet. No adjustments were made to the square footage previously reported in
Argentina, Brazil and Puerto Rico as a result of the reassessment.
Much of our growth internationally in recent years has resulted from
our acquisition of existing operations in various countries. In the third quarter of
fiscal 1998, we acquired approximately 51% of the voting shares in Wal-Mart de Mexico,
which was formerly known as "Cifra," by means of a tender offer pursuant to
which we acquired a total of 593,100,000 shares of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s voting stock
and a merger of certain joint ventures between us and Wal-Mart de Mexico into Wal-Mart de
Mexico. We acquired another 1,609,000,000 shares of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s voting stock
pursuant to that merger. We paid a total of approximately US$1.2 billion for the shares of
Cifra voting stock acquired in the tender offer. In fiscal 2001, we purchased an
additional 271.3 million shares of stock in Wal-Mart de Mexico from other shareholders of
Wal-Mart de Mexico at a cost of approximately $587 million. As a result of that
acquisition and Wal-Mart de Mexico’s share repurchase program, we hold approximately
61.4% of the outstanding voting shares of Wal-Mart de Mexico at the end of fiscal 2002.
Page 8 of 23
In the third quarter of fiscal, 2000, we acquired all of the stock of
ASDA Group PLC, the third largest retailer in the United Kingdom, for a purchase price of
approximately US$11 billion. ASDA had 229 stores at the time of the acquisition. The
acquisition of ASDA marked our entry into the United Kingdom.
We announced on March 14, 2002, that we intend to acquire 6.1% of the
stock of The Seiyu Ltd., a Japanese retail chain, for 6 billion yen, or approximately $46
million based on an exchange rate of 130 yen per United States dollar. Under the terms of
the proposed acquisition, we will also have the right to contribute up to 260 billion yen,
or approximately $2 billion, based on the exchange rate discussed above, for additional
...
approximately 66.7% of the stock of Seiyu. This transaction is subject to the approval of
Seiyu’s stockholders and other approvals. In addition, in February 2002, we also
announced that we intend to acquire 35 Supermercado Amigo supermarkets in Puerto Rico.
That acquisition is subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals.
We have provided additional information regarding the accounting
treatment of certain of the acquisitions discussed above in Note 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated by reference herein and have been included as an exhibit to this annual
report.
Our Industry Segments
Our mass merchandising operations serve our customers primarily through
the operation of three segments. We identify those segments based on management
responsibility within the United States and geographically for all international units.
The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our discount stores, Supercenters and Neighborhood
Markets in the United States. The SAM’S Club segment includes the warehouse
membership clubs in the United States. The International segment includes all of our
operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and
the United Kingdom. We do not treat the operations of our subsidiary, McLane Company, Inc.
("McLane"), as a separate operating segment as a result of the size of its
operations relative to the other segments of our business, but show its results of
operations under the heading "Other" in our segment financial data. McLane
provides products and distribution services to retail industry and institutional food
services customers. You will find information concerning the financial results of our
operating segments and the total assets of each of those segments in Note 9 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have incorporated our Consolidated Financial
Statements as of January 31, 2002 and for the year then ended and the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements by reference herein to our Annual Report to our
Shareholders and included them as an exhibit to this annual report.
Wal-Mart Stores Operating Segment.
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had
net sales of $139.1 billion, $121.9 billion and $108.7 billion for the three fiscal years
ended January 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year,
no single discount store or Supercenter location accounted for as much as 1% of total
Company sales or net income. We have provided additional information about the Wal-Mart
Stores segment in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations,
which we have incorporated by reference herein and has been included as an exhibit to this
annual report. In addition, you should read Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which we have incorporated by reference herein and which contain additional
information regarding our operating segments.
General.
The Company operates Wal-Mart discount stores in all
50 states. Discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet,
...
a wide variety of merchandise, including apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants.
Each store also carries domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes,
housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive
accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and accessories,
cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals and jewelry. In addition,
the stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise, with the grocery assortment in
Supercenters being broader and including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods
and dry grocery.
Page 9 of 23
Nationally advertised merchandise accounts for a majority of sales in
the stores. We market lines of merchandise under store brands including "Sam’s
American Choice," "One Source," "Great Value," "Ol’
Roy," "Puritan," and "Equate." The Company also markets lines of
merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include "Faded Glory,"
"General Electric," "Stanley," "White Stag,"
...
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Grocery, candy
and tobacco
22
Hardgoods
...
9
Sporting goods and toys
7
Health and beauty aids
7
Stationery
3
...
.
Hours of operation for nearly all
Supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores are 24 hours each day. Hours of
operation for the remaining discount stores vary by location, but generally range from
7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., six days a week, and from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays.
Wal-Mart discount stores and Supercenters maintain uniform prices, except where lower
prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily on a self-service,
cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover
while minimizing expenses. Bank credit card programs, operated without recourse to the
Company, are available in all stores.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
.
The Wal-Mart Stores
operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest
volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season,
and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition
.
Our Wal-Mart discount stores compete with
other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national
chains. Our Wal-Mart Supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount
stores, supermarkets and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains.
We also compete with others for new store sites. As of January 31, 2002, based on net
sales, the Wal-Mart Stores segment ranked first among all retail department store chains
and among all discount department store chains.
Our ability to offer value and service to our customers largely
determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs
designed to meet the competitive pressures within our industry. These include our
"Everyday Low Price", "Item Merchandising",
"Store-Within-a-Store" "Price Rollbacks", and "Store of the
Community" programs. Although we believe we have had a major influence in most of the
retail markets in which our stores are located, we cannot assure you that this influence
will continue.
Distribution
.
During fiscal 2002, approximately 84% of
the Wal-Mart discount stores’ and Supercenters’ purchases of merchandise were
shipped from Wal-Mart’s 72 distribution centers of which 32 are general merchandise
distribution centers, 20 are grocery distribution centers, eight are clothing distribution
centers, and nine are specialty distribution centers. The specialty distribution centers
ship items such as jewelry, tires and optical. The balance of merchandise purchased was
shipped directly to the stores from suppliers. Additionally, the Company operates three
import distribution centers in the United States. The 72 distribution centers are located
throughout the continental United States. Eight distribution centers are located in each
of Arkansas and Georgia; seven in Texas; five in Indiana; four in California; three in
each of New York and South Carolina; two in each of Alabama, Florida, Illinois, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Montana, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin; and one in each of
Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Mexico,
North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon and Virginia. During fiscal 2002, Wal-Mart.com
utilized two third-party distribution centers and one located in Utah and one in Ohio to
fulfill orders for goods placed through its website.
Page 10 of 23
Sam’s Club Operating Segment.
The SAM’S Club segment had
net sales of $29.4 billion, $26.8 billion and $24.8 billion for the three fiscal years
ended January 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year,
no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
We have provided additional information the SAM’S Club segment in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations, which appears in our Annual Report to
Shareholders, is incorporated by reference herein and has been included as an exhibit to
this annual report. In addition, you should read Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, which we have incorporated by reference herein, which contain
additional information regarding each of our operating segments.
General
.
We operate SAM’S Clubs in 48 states.
...
Merchandise
.
SAM’S Clubs offer bulk displays of name
brand hardgood merchandise, some softgoods and institutional size grocery items, and
selected items under the "Member’s Mark" store brand. Generally, each
SAM’S Club also carries software, electronic goods, jewelry, sporting goods, toys,
tires, stationery and books. Most clubs have fresh food departments, which include bakery,
meat and produce. In addition, some clubs offer one-hour photo, embroidery departments,
pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, sales in the SAM’s
Clubs segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as
follows:
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Sundries
32
Food
30
Hardlines
20
...
Operating hours vary among SAM’S Clubs,
but are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
SAM’S Clubs are membership only, cash-and-carry operations.
However, a financial service credit card program, the Discover Card, is available in all
clubs and we make the "SAM’S Direct" commercial finance program and
"Business Revolving Credit" available to qualifying business members. Also, we
make a "Personal Credit" program available to qualifying club members. All
credit extended to members under these programs is without recourse to us. Club members
include businesses and those individuals who are members of certain qualifying
organizations, such as federal and state government employees and credit union members. In
fiscal 2002, business members paid an annual membership fee of $30 for the primary
membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. The annual membership
fee for an individual member is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card
available at no additional cost. SAM’S Clubs Elite Membership program offers
additional benefits and services such as automotive extended service contracts, roadside
assistance, home improvement, auto brokering, and pharmacy discounts in addition to the
regular suite of benefits including SAM'S CLUB Travel Services, Boat and RV Program and
Mail Order Pharmacy. The annual membership fee for an Elite Member is $100.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
.
The SAM’S Club operating
segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of
sales occurs in the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday
season, and the lowest volume occurs during its first fiscal quarter.
Competition
.
SAM’S Clubs compete with other
warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, wholesale grocers and general
merchandise wholesalers and distributors. We also compete with others for new club sites.
As of January 31, 2002, based on domestic U.S. net sales, the SAM’S Club segment
ranked first among all warehouse clubs. Our ability to offer low prices and quality
merchandise determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Page 11 of 23
Distribution
.
During fiscal 2002, approximately 62.2% of
the SAM’S Club purchases were shipped from the SAM’S Clubs segment’s
dedicated distribution facilities. Suppliers shipped the balance of the SAM’s Club
purchases directly to the SAM’S Clubs’ locations. The principal focus of our
SAM’s Clubs’ distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored
inventory is minimized. A combination of six Company owned and operated facilities and 13
third-party owned and operated facilities constitute the overall distribution structure
for the SAM’s Club segment. Two of the Company owned and operated facilities are
located in Texas with one located in each of Arkansas, Colorado, Minnesota and Indiana. Of
the third party owned and operated facilities, one of each is located in each of Arizona,
California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North
Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Washington. Additionally, the SAM’S Club segment is
serviced by 12 Wal-Mart owned freezer/cooler facilities which service both Wal-Mart stores
and SAM’S Clubs, two Wal-Mart owned specialty distribution facilities which service
both Wal-Mart stores and SAM’S Clubs and one third-party owned freezer/cooler
facility.
International Operating Segment.
Our International Segment
comprises our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Germany,
South Korea, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom; our operations through majority-owned
subsidiaries in Brazil and Mexico and our operations through joint ventures in China. The
International segment’s net sales for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000, were $35.5 billion, $32.1 billion and $22.7 billion, respectively. During
the most recent fiscal year, no single location accounted for as much as 1% of total
Company sales or net income. We have provided additional information about the
International segment in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations, which appears in our Annual Report to Shareholders, is incorporated by
reference herein and has been included as an exhibit to this annual report. In addition,
you should read Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which we have
incorporated by reference herein, which contains additional information regarding our
operating segments.
General
.
Operating formats vary by country, but include
Wal-Mart discount stores in Canada and Puerto Rico; Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil,
China, Germany, South Korea, Mexico and the United Kingdom; SAM’S Clubs in Brazil,
China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Superamas (traditional supermarket), Bodegas (discount
store), Suburbias (specialty department store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico; Todo Dias
(traditional supermarket) in Brazil; Neighborhood Markets (traditional supermarkets) in
South Korea and ASDA stores (combination grocery and apparel store) in the United Kingdom.
Merchandise
.
The merchandising strategy for the
International operating segment is similar to that of domestic segments in the breadth and
scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a
majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed
to serve customers in the different markets in which the International segment operates.
In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each
country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations
.
The hours of operation for operating units in
the International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries,
depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are
primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist
in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
.
The International
operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest
volume of sales occurs in the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the
business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and
customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition
.
The International operating segment competes
with a variety of local, national and international chains in the discount, department,
drug, variety, specialty and wholesale sectors of the retail market in each of the
countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international
restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise
that offers exceptional value in the international segment determines, to a large extent,
our competitive position. In our international Supercenters, our ability to effectively
operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position
in the markets where we operate.
Page 12 of 23
Distribution.
The International segment operates export
consolidation facilities in Los Angeles, California; Jacksonville, Florida; and Laredo,
Texas in support of product flow to its Mexican, Asian, and Latin American markets. We
operate a total of 35 distribution facilities that are located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, China, Germany, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and Mexico. Through these
facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating
units. During fiscal 2002, approximately 71% of the International merchandise purchases
flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the
International segment’s merchandise purchases directly to our stores in the various
countries in which we operate. A combination of Company
owned and
operated facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure
for International logistics.
Other Operations.
The sales reported in the "Other"
category result from sales to third parties by McLane. McLane, which is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., is a wholesale distributor that sells its merchandise
to a variety of retailers, primarily in the convenience store and food service industries.
McLane also services Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and
SAM’S Clubs. McLane offers a wide variety of grocery and non-grocery products,
including perishable and non-perishable items. The non-grocery products consist primarily
of tobacco products, general merchandise, health and beauty aids, toys and stationery.
McLane’s net sales for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
were $13.8 billion, $10.5 billion and $8.8 billion, respectively.
During fiscal 2002, McLane operated 18 grocery distribution facilities,
17 of which we owned and one of which we leased. These grocery distribution facilities are
located as follows: two in each of California and Texas, and one each in Arizona, Alabama,
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New
York, North Carolina, Virginia and Washington. Additionally, McLane operated 17
foodservice distribution facilities, one of which we owned and 16 of which we leased.
These foodservice distribution facilities are located as follows: two or each in
California and Texas and one in each of Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas,
Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin.
Employees (Associates).
As of January 31, 2002, the Company employed approximately 1,383,000
associates worldwide, with approximately 1,080,000 associates in the United States and
303,000 associates in foreign countries. Most associates participate in incentive
programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon the
Company’s productivity or profitability.
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
The number and location of domestic and international Wal-Mart discount
stores, Supercenters and SAM’S Clubs is incorporated by reference to the table under
the caption "Fiscal 2002 End-of-Year Store Count" on page 5 of the Annual Report
to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2002, which information we have included as
an exhibit to this annual report.
We own 1,680 of the properties on which our domestic discount
stores, Neighborhood Markets and Supercenters are located and 331 of the properties on
which our domestic SAM’S Clubs are located. In some cases, we own the land associated
with leased buildings in which our discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, Supercenters and
SAM’S Clubs are located.
We either lease the remaining buildings in which our present domestic
locations are located from a commercial property developer, pursuant to a sale/leaseback
arrangement or from a local governmental entity in connection with an industrial revenue
bond financing arrangement. All of our leases of our stores provide for fixed annual
rentals and, in many cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent contractors to construct the new buildings, both
leased and owned, that we build.
Page 13 of 23
Domestically, we operated 72 Wal-Mart distribution facilities and 35
McLane distribution facilities as of January 31, 2002. With the exception of the 16 leased
McLane foodservice distribution facilities, we primarily own these distribution
facilities, several of which are subject to mortgages granted to secure loans obtained to
finance their development. We also lease some of the distribution facilities under
industrial development bond financing arrangements that provide us with the option to
purchase those facilities at the end of the lease term for nominal amounts.
We own the office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our
home office and corporate headquarters and an office facility in Temple, Texas that serves
as the home office for McLane. We lease an office facility in Brisbane, California that
serves as the home office for Wal-Mart.com
We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a
combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International
segment operates. We own 9 properties in Argentina, 14 properties in Brazil, 23 properties
in Canada, one property in China through joint venture, 19 properties in Germany, 9
properties in South Korea, 247 properties in Mexico, five properties in Puerto Rico and
165 properties in the United Kingdom in which the operating units are located, with the
remaining units in each country being leased. We utilize both owned and leased properties
for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. Outside the
United States, we utilized 35 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2002. Of these 35
distribution facilities, we owned nine and leased 17. Third parties own the remaining nine
distribution facilities.
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
We are not a party to nor are any of our properties subject to any
material pending legal proceeding other than routine litigation incidental to the
Company’s business.
We recently opened a Supercenter in
Honesdale, Pennsylvania. In February 1999, we settled claims made by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) that a subcontractor’s acts and
omissions relating to the construction of the Supercenter led to excess erosion and
sedimentation of a nearby creek. In the settlement, we agreed to pay a fine of $25,000 and
to perform a $75,000 community environmental project in the Honesdale area. We are
negotiating a settlement of a claim by the United States Army Corps of Engineers that the
construction resulted in the filling of approximately 0.76 acres in excess of the
permitted fill area of waters and wetlands at the site. The proposed settlement with the
Corps of Engineers would require us to pay $200,000 to a non-profit corporation for the
purchase of local wetlands conservation areas and easements. The contractor on the project
has reimbursed us for the amounts we have paid in connection with this matter.
During fiscal 2001, the State of
Connecticut filed suit against us in the State of Connecticut Superior Court for the
Judicial District of Hartford alleging various violations of state environmental laws and
alleging that we failed to obtain the appropriate permits or maintain required records
relating to storm water management practices at 12 stores. The suit seeks to ensure our
compliance with the general permit for the discharge of stormwater associated with those
stores. We intend to vigorously defend against these allegations.
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s security
holders during the last quarter of the year ended January 31, 2002.
...
PART II
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY
AND RELATED
SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the information "Number of Shareholders of record" under the caption
"11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 14 and 15, and all the information under
the captions "Market Price of Common Stock," "Listings - Stock Symbol:
WMT" and "Dividends Paid Per Share" on page 41 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2002. Such information is included in an
exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
all information under the caption "11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 14 and 15
of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2002. Such information
is included in an exhibit to this annual report.
TEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the caption "Management’s Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 16 through 23 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended January 31, 2002. Such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 7a.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT
MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" of the caption
"Management’s Discussion and Analysis" on pages 20 through 23 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2002. Such information is included
in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of
Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,"
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent
Auditors" on pages 24 through 40 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended January 31, 2002. Such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
PART III
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s
directors and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and certain
beneficial owners of the Company’s Common Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under
the captions entitled "Nominees for Directors" on pages 2 and 3 and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 14 of the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on Friday, June 7, 2002 (the "Proxy Statement").
Page 15 of 23
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
...
Held Since
Age
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board.
1992
57
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive
Committee of the Board. Prior to January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.
2000
...
H. Lee Scott,
Jr.
President and
Chief Executive Officer. From January 1999 to January 2000, he served as Vice Chairman and
Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From January 1998 to January 1999, he served as
President and Chief Executive Officer of our Wal-Mart Stores Division. Prior to January
1998, he served as Executive Vice President - Merchandising of the Company.
...
Michael T. Duke
Executive Vice
President, Administration. From March 2000 to July 2000, he served as Executive Vice
President of Logistics. From March 1996 to March 2000, he served as Senior Vice President
of Logistics. Prior to March 1996, he served as Senior Vice President of Distribution.
2000
52
Thomas R. Grimm
...
57
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice
President, Legal and Corporate Affairs. Prior to July 2001, he served as Senior Vice
President and General Counsel of Raytheon Company since 1992.
2001
53
John B. Menzer
Executive Vice
President and President and Chief Executive Officer of our Wal-Mart International
Division. Prior to June 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company.
1999
...
1995
55
Page 16 of 23
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the caption entitled "Compensation of
Directors" on page 4, "Compensation and Nominating Committee Report on Executive
Compensation" on pages 6  through 8, and "Summary Compensation,"
"Option Grants In Last Fiscal Year," and "Option Exercises and Fiscal Year
End Option Values" on pages 9 through 11 of the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the caption entitled "Stock Ownership",
subcaptions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and
Directors" on pages 11 through 13 of the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the caption "Related-Party Transactions with
Wal-Mart" on page 5 of the Proxy Statement.
...
Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement
dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E.
Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation
II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella,
Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
Page 17 of 23
...
to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-64740)
+10(a)
Form of
individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the year ended
January 31, 1986. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange
...
Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
+10(f)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 333-24259).
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Officer Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i)
from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1996.
This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference
Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s file no. 1-6991.
...
January 31, 1998.
+10(k)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock
Incentive Plan of 1998 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) from the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1999.
+10(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Management Incentive Plan of 1998 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(m)
from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1999.
*12
Statement re computation of
...
*13
All information
incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001.
*21
List of the Company’s
Subsidiaries
...
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Consolidated Statements of Income
...
January 31, 2002 and 2001
25
Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity for each of the
three years in the period ended
January 31, 2002
26
...
Statements, except Note 11
28
Not Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Note 11 - Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)
39
Page 19 of 23
...
15, 2002
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE:
April
15, 2002
/s/ David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee
Of the Board and Director
DATE:
April
[Total relevant lines: 780]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2002 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2003-04-15.html)
================================================================================
No
o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.
o
...
o
As of July 31, 2002, the aggregate market
value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange on
July 31, 2002, was $133,275,746,243. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the
registrant has assumed that its directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of
the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
...
of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2003.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant’s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003, are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II of this Form 10-K.
Portions of the registrant’s
definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 6, 2003,
are incorporated by reference into Part III and IV of this Form 10-K.
Page 1 of 26
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION
This Form 10-K includes and incorporates
by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be ‘‘forward-looking
statements’’ within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K address activities, events or developments that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with
its subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
expects
or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including:
future capital expenditures, including the amount and nature of those expenditures;
expansion and other development trends of industry segments in which we and our
subsidiaries are active;
our business strategy;
our financing strategy;
...
the cost of electricity and other energy requirements;
competitive pressures;
inflation;
consumer debt levels;
currency exchange fluctuations;
the cost of motor fuel;
trade restrictions;
changes in tariff and freight rates;
unemployment levels;
...
.
BUSINESS
General.
We are the world’s largest retailer
as measured by total revenues. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003, we had net
sales of $244.5 billion. We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8
th
Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716.
Although Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. was
incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our predecessors
began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport,
Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles,
Missouri. Until 1962, our predecessors’ business was devoted entirely to the
operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a
discount store, was opened. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three SAM’s CLUBs,
and in fiscal 1988, our first Wal-Mart Supercenter, a format that combines a full-line
supermarket with a general merchandise discount store. We currently operate in all 50
states in the United States.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first
international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we had a
50% interest, with Cifra S.A. de C.V. In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest
in Cifra as described below, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to
Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has
continued to expand and at January 31, 2003, we had international operations in Argentina,
Brazil, Canada, Germany, South Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, through
joint venture agreements, in China and through a minority investment in Japan.
The Development of Our Company in Recent Years.
At January 31, 2003, we operated in the
United States, 1,568 discount stores, 1,258 Supercenters, 525 SAM’s CLUBs and 49
Neighborhood Markets. Internationally, at January 31, 2003, the Company operated units in
Argentina (11), Brazil (22), Canada (213), Germany (94), South Korea (15), Mexico (597),
Puerto Rico (52) and the United Kingdom (258), and, under joint venture agreements, in
China (26). Additionally, we hold, on a fully diluted basis, a 35% interest in The Seiyu,
Ltd., a Japanese retail chain.
Our growth, measured both by our net
sales and net income, occurs in large measure as a result of the increase in the number of
stores we have, both in the United States and internationally, and the increase from year
to year of the sales in our existing stores. The following tables provide summary
information concerning the additions of units and square footage for domestic discount
stores, Supercenters, SAM’s CLUBs, Neighborhood Markets and international units in
each of our fiscal years from 1999 through 2003.
Page 3 of 26
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1999 THROUGH 2003
STORE COUNT
Fiscal Year
Ended
January 31
...
Total opened net of conversions and relocations of Wal-Mart discount stores to, and as
Wal-Mart Supercenters.
Page 4 of 26
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1999 THROUGH 2003
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal Year
...
(2) Includes square footage of Wal-Mart Supercenters created by the
conversion or relocation of Wal-Mart discount stores.
Page 5 of 26
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1999 THROUGH 2003
CLUB COUNT
...
3,968,149
65,746,952
Page 6 of 26
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1999 THROUGH 2003
STORE COUNT
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
...
2
22
213
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal
...
26
94**
15
Mexico
Puerto Rico
Fiscal
Year
...
**** Includes conversion of 1 Bodega to a SAM’s CLUB in fiscal
2003.
Page 7 of 26
INTERNATIONAL NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 1999 THROUGH 2003
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE
Fiscal
...
24,742,304
Fiscal
Year
China
Germany
South
Korea
...
2,891,675
Fiscal
Year
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
United
...
720,748
20,940,934
* Includes Amigo’s square footage of 821,917 in fiscal 2003.
Fiscal 2002 net additions contain an
adjustment to the previously reported square footage based on a reassessment of the
various foreign country totals. This adjustment has been made to state the total square
footage amounts at January 31, 2002. The adjustments made on an individual country basis
are: for Canada a reduction of 21,506 square feet, for China an increase of 27,849 square
feet, for Germany an increase of 4,419,932 square feet, for South Korea an increase of
300,645 square feet, for Mexico an increase of 4,293,932 square feet and for the United
Kingdom an increase of 134,088 square feet. No adjustments were made to the square footage
previously reported in Argentina, Brazil and Puerto Rico as a result of the reassessment.
Much of our growth internationally in
recent years has resulted from our acquisition of existing operations in various
countries. In the third quarter of fiscal 1998, we acquired approximately 51% of the
voting shares in Wal-Mart de Mexico, which was formerly known as "Cifra," by
means of a tender offer pursuant to which we acquired a total of 593,100,000 shares of
Wal-Mart de Mexico’s voting stock and a merger of certain joint ventures between us
and Wal-Mart de Mexico into Wal-Mart de Mexico. We acquired another 1,609,000,000 shares
of Wal-Mart de Mexico’s voting stock pursuant to that merger. We paid a total of
approximately US$1.2 billion for the shares of Cifra voting stock acquired in the tender
offer. In fiscal 2001, we purchased an additional 271.3 million shares of stock in
Wal-Mart de Mexico from other shareholders of Wal-Mart de Mexico at a cost of
approximately $587 million. As a result of that acquisition, Wal-Mart de Mexico’s
share repurchase program and a stock dividend paid by Wal-Mart de Mexico, we held
approximately 62% of the outstanding voting shares of Wal-Mart de Mexico at the end of
fiscal 2003.
Page 8 of 26
In the third quarter of fiscal, 2000, we
acquired all of the stock of ASDA Group PLC, the third largest retailer in the United
Kingdom, for a purchase price of approximately US$11 billion. ASDA had 229 stores at the
time of the acquisition. The acquisition of ASDA marked our entry into the United Kingdom.
In December 2002, the Company exercised
in full the first in the series of warrants we had acquired that allow us to acquire
192,800,000 new shares in Seiyu for approximately $432 million. After this exercise, our
ownership percentage in Seiyu increased to approximately 35% on a fully diluted basis. If
we exercise all of the warrants we acquired at a cost of 260 billion yen or $2.1 billion
at an exchange rate of 124 yen per U.S. dollar, we will own approximately 66.7% of the
stock of Seiyu. Also, in December 2002, the Company completed its purchase of
Supermercados Amigo, Inc. (Amigo), a supermarket chain located in Puerto Rico with 37
supermarkets at the time of the acquisition. Four of the supermarkets were subsequently
sold, and two are currently in the process of being sold.
We have provided additional information regarding the accounting
treatment of certain of the acquisitions discussed above in Note 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated by reference herein and have been included as an exhibit to this annual
report.
Our Industry Segments
Our mass merchandising operations
serve our customers primarily through the operation of three segments. We identify those
segments based on management responsibility within the United States and geographically
for all international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our discount stores,
Supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in the United States. The SAM’s CLUB segment
includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States. The International segment
includes all of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Germany, Korea,
Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. We do not treat the operations of our
subsidiary, McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane"), as a separate operating segment as
a result of the size of its operations relative to the other segments of our business, but
show its results of operations under the heading "Other" in our segment
financial data. McLane provides products and distribution services to retail industry and
institutional food services customers. You will find information concerning the financial
results of our operating segments and the total assets of each of those segments in Note
11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Results of Operations. We have incorporated our Consolidated Financial
Statements as of January 31, 2003 and for the year then ended and the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements by reference herein to our Annual Report to our
Shareholders and included them as an exhibit to this annual report, as well as
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations.
Wal-Mart Stores Operating Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had net sales
of $157.1 billion, $139.1 billion and $121.9 billion for the three fiscal years ended
January 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single discount store, Supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much
as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
We
operate Wal-Mart discount stores in all 50 states. Discount stores range in size from
...
square feet to 64,000 square feet, with the average size being 44,099 square feet.
Merchandise
Wal-Mart
discount stores and the general merchandise area of the Supercenters are generally
organized into 53 departments and offer a wide variety of merchandise. Each store carries
apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions,
stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small
appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys,
pet food and accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals,
jewelry and optical. In addition, the stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise,
with the grocery assortment in Supercenters being broader and including meat, produce,
deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery. Neighborhood Markets are generally
organized into 35 departments, and offer dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy,
frozen foods, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household
chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies.
Page 9 of 26
Nationally advertised merchandise
accounts for a majority of sales in the stores. We market lines of merchandise under store
brands including "Sam’s American Choice," "One Source,"
"Great Value," "Ol’ Roy," "Puritan,"
"Equate," "No Boundaries," "George" and "Athletic
Works." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of
which include "Faded Glory," "General Electric," "White
...
variance) by product category were as follows:
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE OF SALES
Grocery, candy
and tobacco
24
Hardgoods
...
9
Electronics
9
Health and beauty aids
7
Sporting goods and toys
6
...
Operations
Hours
of operation for nearly all Supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores are
24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining discount stores vary by location,
but generally range from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., six days a week, and from 10:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. on Sundays. Wal-Mart discount stores and Supercenters maintain uniform prices,
except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily on
a self-service, cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and
inventory turnover while minimizing expenses. Bank credit card programs, operated without
recourse to the Company, are available in all stores.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The
Wal-Mart Stores operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent.
Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes
the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
Our
Wal-Mart discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and
specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national chains. Our Wal-Mart
Supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets and
specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with
others for new store sites. As of January 31, 2003, based on net sales, the Wal-Mart
Stores segment ranked first among all retail department store chains and among all
discount department store chains.
Our ability to offer value and
service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail
industry. We employ many programs designed to meet the competitive pressures within our
industry. These include our "Everyday Low Price,"
"Store-Within-a-Store," "Price Rollbacks," and "Store of the
Community" programs. Although we believe we have had a major influence in most of the
retail markets in which our stores are located, we cannot assure you that this influence
will continue.
Distribution
During
fiscal 2003, approximately 83% of the Wal-Mart discount stores’ and
Supercenters’ purchases of merchandise were shipped from Wal-Mart’s 84
distribution centers of which 33 are general merchandise distribution centers, 25 are
grocery distribution centers, seven are clothing distribution centers and 15 are specialty
distribution centers. The specialty distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry,
tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. The balance of merchandise purchased
was shipped directly to the stores from suppliers. Additionally, the Company operates
three import distribution centers and one distribution center for online orders placed via
Wal-Mart.com. The 84 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United
States. Nine distribution centers are located in each of Arkansas and Texas; eight in
Georgia; five in Indiana; four in each of California and New York; three in each of
Florida, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, and Pennsylvania; two each in Alabama, Illinois,
Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin; and one in
each in Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Hampshire, New
Mexico, Nevada, Oklahoma, and Oregon.
Page 10 of 26
SAM’s CLUB Operating Segment
The SAM’s CLUB segment had net sales
of $31.7 billion, $29.4 billion and $26.8 billion for the three fiscal years ended January
31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club
location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
We
operate SAM’s CLUBs in 48 states. SAM’s CLUBs facility sizes generally range
...
Merchandise
SAM’s
CLUB offers bulk displays of name-brand merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods,
institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the
"Member’s Mark" brand. Generally, each SAM’s CLUB also carries
software, electronics, jewelry, floral, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books.
Most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce and Sam’s
Cafe. Additionally, some clubs offer one-hour photo, pharmaceuticals, optical departments
and gasoline stations.
During the fiscal year ended January 31,
2003, sales in the SAM’s CLUBs segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by
product category were as follows:
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE OF SALES
Sundries
31
Food
30
Hardlines
19
...
to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Additionally, all Club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members to
shop before the Clubs regular opening hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 AM.
SAM’s CLUBs are membership only,
cash-and-carry operations. However, a financial service credit card program, the Discover
Card, is available in all clubs and we make the "SAM’S Direct" commercial
finance program and "Business Revolving Credit" available to qualifying business
members. Also, we make a "Personal Credit" program available to qualifying club
members. Generally, all credit extended to members under these programs is without
recourse to the Company. Club members include businesses and those individuals who are
members of certain qualifying organizations, such as federal and state government
employees and credit union members. In fiscal 2003, business members paid an annual
membership fee of $30 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no
additional cost. The annual membership fee for an individual member is $35 for the primary
membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. SAM’sCLUBs Elite
Membership program offers additional benefits and services such as automotive extended
service contracts, roadside assistance, home improvement, auto brokering, and pharmacy
discounts in addition to the regular suite of benefits including SAM'S CLUB Travel
Services, Boat and RV Program and Mail Order Pharmacy. The annual membership fee for an
Elite Member is $100. In February 2003, the Elite Membership Program was replaced with the
SAM’S CLUB Plus membership program which provides, in addition to the services
mentioned above under the SAM’S CLUB Elite membership program, an extended array of
new services including insurance services, credit card processing, payroll processing,
dental discount networks and extended service agreements.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The
SAM’S CLUB operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent.
Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes
the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
SAM’S
CLUBs compete with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, wholesale
grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. We also compete with others
for new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise determines our
competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Page 11 of 26
Distribution
During
fiscal 2003, approximately 63% of the SAM’s CLUB purchases were shipped from the
SAM’s CLUBs segment’s dedicated distribution facilities. Suppliers shipped the
balance of the SAM’s CLUB purchases directly to the SAM’s CLUBs’ locations.
The principal focus of our SAM’s CLUBs’ distribution operations is on
crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. A combination of seven Company
owned and operated facilities and 12 third-party owned and operated facilities constitute
the overall distribution structure for the SAM’s CLUB segment. Two of the Company
owned and operated facilities are located in Texas with one located in each of Arizona,
Arkansas, Colorado, Minnesota and Indiana. Of the third party owned and operated
facilities, one of each is located in each of California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois,
Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and
Washington. Additionally, the SAM’s CLUB segment is serviced by 12 Wal-Mart owned
freezer/cooler facilities which service both Wal-Mart stores and SAM’s CLUBs, four
Wal-Mart owned specialty distribution facilities which service both Wal-Mart stores and
SAM’s CLUBs and one third-party owned freezer/cooler facility.
International Operating Segment
Our International Segment comprises our
operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Germany, South Korea,
Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom; our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in
Brazil and Mexico; our operations through joint ventures in China and, through a minority
ownership interest, in Japan. The International segment’s net sales for the three
fiscal years ended January 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, were $40.8 billion, $35.5 billion and
$32.1 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single location
accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
Operating
formats vary by country, but include Wal-Mart discount stores in Canada and Puerto Rico;
Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Germany, South Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and
the United Kingdom; SAM’s CLUBs in Brazil, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Superamas
(traditional supermarket), Bodegas (discount store), Suburbias (specialty department
store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico; Todo Dias (traditional supermarket) in Brazil;
Neighborhood Markets (traditional supermarkets) in China; ASDA stores (combination grocery
and apparel store) in the United Kingdom; and Amigo supermarkets in Puerto Rico.
Merchandise
The
merchandising strategy for the International operating segment is similar to that of
domestic segments in the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand
name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the
United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop
relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality
merchandise.
Operations
The
hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by
individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances
governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit
cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the
purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The
International operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent.
Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter. The
seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious
holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition
The
International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and
international chains in the discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale
sectors of the retail market in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico,
with local, national and international restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our
customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the
international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our
international Supercenters, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a
major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution
The
International segment operates export consolidation facilities in Los Angeles, California;
Jacksonville, Florida; and Laredo, Texas in support of product flow to its Mexican, Asian,
and Latin American markets. We operate a total of 43 distribution facilities that are
located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and
Mexico. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic
product to the operating units. During fiscal 2003, approximately 76% of the International
merchandise purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the
balance of the International segment’s merchandise purchases directly to our stores
in the various countries in which we operate. A combination of Company
owned and operated facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall
distribution structure for International logistics.
Page 12 of 26
Other Operations
The sales reported in the
"Other" category result from sales to third parties by McLane. McLane, which is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., is a wholesale distributor that sells
its merchandise to a variety of retailers, primarily in the convenience store and food
service industries. McLane also services Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters,
Neighborhood Markets and SAM’s CLUBs. McLane offers a wide variety of grocery and
non-grocery products, including perishable and non-perishable items. The non-grocery
products consist primarily of tobacco products, general merchandise, health and beauty
aids, toys and stationery. McLane’s net sales for the three fiscal years ended
January 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $14.9 billion, $13.8 billion and $10.5 billion,
respectively.
During fiscal 2003, McLane operated 19
grocery distribution facilities, 18 of which are owned and one of which is leased. These
grocery distribution facilities are located as follows: two in each of California and
Texas, and one each in Arizona, Alabama, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Virginia, Minnesota, and
Washington. Additionally, McLane operated 18 foodservice distribution facilities, four of
which we owned and 14 of which are leased. These foodservice distribution facilities are
located as follows: two in each of California and Texas and one in each of Arizona,
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,
Oregon, Tennessee, Virginia, Michigan, and Wisconsin.
Employees (Associates)
As of January 31, 2003, the Company
employed approximately 1.4 million associates worldwide, with approximately 1.1million
associates in the United States and approximately 300,000 associates in foreign countries.
Most associates participate in incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to
receive additional compensation based upon the Company’s productivity or
profitability.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com.  We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports filed
with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our website free of
charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish
them to the SEC. Our SEC filings can be found on the Investor Relations page of our
website, the address of which is
http://investor.walmartstores.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=wmt&script=2100.
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
The number and location of
domestic and international Wal-Mart discount stores, Supercenters and SAM’s CLUBs is
incorporated by reference to the table under the caption "Fiscal 2003 End-of-Year
Store Count" on page 7 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 31, 2003, which information we have included as an exhibit to this annual report.
We own 1,847 of the properties on which
our domestic discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and Supercenters are located and 368 of
the properties on which our domestic SAM’s CLUBs are located. In some cases, we own
the land associated with leased buildings in which our discount stores, Neighborhood
Markets, Supercenters and SAM’s CLUBs are located.
We either lease the
remaining buildings in which our present domestic locations are located from a commercial
property developer, or lease pursuant to a sale/leaseback arrangement or from a local
governmental entity in connection with an industrial revenue bond financing arrangement.
All of our leases of our stores provide for fixed annual rentals and, in many cases, the
leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent contractors to
construct the new buildings, both leased and owned, that we build.
Page 13 of 26
Domestically, we operated
84 Wal-Mart distribution facilities, 19 SAM’s CLUB distribution facilities and 37
McLane distribution facilities as of January 31, 2003. With the exception of the 15 leased
McLane foodservice distribution facilities and the 12 leased SAM’s CLUB distribution
facilities, we own the remaining distribution facilities, several of which are subject to
mortgages granted to secure loans obtained to finance their development. We also lease
some of the distribution facilities under industrial development bond financing
arrangements that provide us with the option to purchase those facilities at the end of
the lease term for nominal amounts.
We own the office
facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and corporate
headquarters and an office facility in Temple, Texas that serves as the home office for
McLane. We lease an office facility in Brisbane, California that serves as the home office
for Wal-Mart.com
We operate our International segment
stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in
which our International segment operates. We own 9 properties in Argentina, 14 properties
in Brazil, 36 properties in Canada, 21 properties in Germany, 15 properties in South
Korea, 290 properties in Mexico, eight properties in Puerto Rico and 170 properties in the
United Kingdom in which the operating units are located, with the remaining units in each
country being leased. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in
each country in which we are conducting business. Outside the United States, we utilized
43 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2003. Of these 43 distribution facilities, we
owned 25 and leased 2. Third parties own the remaining 16 distribution facilities.
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
We discuss certain legal proceedings
pending against us in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
"Item 8. Financial Statements," in Note 8 to our financial statements, which is
captioned: "Litigation," and refer you to that discussion for important
information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such action and
...
below
reflect litigation known to the
Company on March 19, 2003.
WAGE AND HOUR "Off the Clock" CLASS ACTIONS:
Albrecht
v. Wal-Mart ("WM"),
Superior Ct. of AZ, Maricopa County, 1/3/03;
...
1
st
Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v.
WM,
Marion County Superior Ct. IN, 8/17/00;
Barnett v. WM,
...
Mayo v. Hartford Life Ins. Co.,
USDC,
Southern Dist. of TX, Houston Div., 6/28/01;
Waller v. AIG Life Ins. Co.,
USDC,
Northern Dist. of TX, Fort Worth Div., 7/3/01;
Rice v. WM,
...
which the potential monetary sanctions involved exceed $100,000. We are disclosing the
following items in accordance with Item 103.
In February 1999, the Company settled
claims made by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (‘PDEP’)
regarding a store in Honesdale, Pennsylvania. The PDEP alleged that a subcontractor’s
acts and omissions relating to the construction of the store led to excess erosion and
sedimentation of a nearby creek. In the settlement, the Company agreed to pay a fine of
$25,000 and to perform a $75,000 community environmental project in the Honesdale area.
The Company is negotiating a settlement of a claim by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers that the construction of the Honesdale store resulted in the filling of
approximately 0.76 acres in excess of the permitted fill area of waters and wetlands at
the site. The proposed settlement with the Corps of Engineers would require the Company to
pay $200,000 to a non-profit corporation for the purchase of local wetlands conservation
areas and easements. The contractor on the project has reimbursed the Company for the
amounts paid in connection with the settlement matter.
During fiscal 2001, the State of
Connecticut filed suit against the Company in the State of Connecticut Superior Court for
the Judicial District of Hartford alleging various violations of state environmental laws
and alleging that the Company failed to obtain the appropriate permits or failed to
maintain required records relating to storm water management practices at 12 stores. The
suit seeks to ensure the Company’s compliance with the general permit for the
discharge of stormwater associated with those stores.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s
security holders during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.
...
PART II
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY
AND RELATED
SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the information "Number of Shareholders of record"
under the caption "11-Year Financial Summary" on pages 16 and 17, and all the
information under the captions "Market Price of Common Stock," "Listings -
Stock Symbol: WMT" and "Dividends Paid Per Share" on page 53 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2003. Such information is included
in an exhibit to this annual report.
Information about our equity compensation
plans is presented under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information" on
page 13 of the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on Friday, June 6, 2003, which proxy statement is being filed
contemporaneously with this Annual Report (the "Proxy Statement").
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "11-Year Financial
Summary" on pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 31, 2003. Such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
"Management’s Discussion and Analysis" on pages 18 through 29 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2003. Such information is included
in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 7a.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT
MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the sub-caption
"Market Risk" of the caption "Management’s Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 25 through 28 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended January 31, 2003. Such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the captions
"Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets,"
"Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity," "Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and
"Report of Independent Auditors" on pages 30 through 51 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2003. Such information is included in an
exhibit to this annual report.
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
...
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with
respect to the Company’s directors and compliance by the Company’s directors,
executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company’s Common Stock with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is furnished by incorporation by
reference to all information under the captions entitled "Nominees for
Directors" on pages 2 and 3 and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
...
Held Since
Age
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board.
1992
58
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive
Committee of the Board. Prior to January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.
2000
...
H. Lee Scott,
Jr.
President and
Chief Executive Officer. From January 1999 to January 2000, he served as Vice Chairman and
Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From January 1998 to January 1999, he served as
President and Chief Executive Officer of our Wal-Mart Stores Division. Prior to January
1998, he served as Executive Vice President - Merchandising of the Company.
...
Michael T. Duke
Executive Vice
President, Administration. From March 2000 to July 2000, he served as Executive Vice
President of Logistics. From March 1996 to March 2000, he served as Senior Vice President
of Logistics. Prior to March 1996, he served as Senior Vice President of Distribution.
2000
53
B. Kevin Turner
...
37
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice
President, Legal and Corporate Affairs. Prior to July 2001, he served as Senior Vice
President and General Counsel of Raytheon Company since 1992.
2001
54
John B. Menzer
Executive Vice
President and President and Chief Executive Officer of our Wal-Mart International
Division. Prior to June 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company.
1999
...
Holley, Jr.
Senior Vice
President and Controller of the Company. From March 1999 to January 2003, he served as
Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Wal-Mart International. From
October 1996 to March 1999 he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Wal-Mart International.
2003
46
Page 17 of 26
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption entitled
"Compensation of Directors" on page 3, "Compensation, Nominating and
Governance Committee Report on Executive Compensation" on pages 6 through 8, and
"Summary Compensation," "Option Grants In Last Fiscal Year," and
"Option Exercises and Fiscal Year End Option Values" on pages 9 and 10 of the
Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption entitled
"Stock Ownership", subcaptions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and
"Holdings of Officers and Directors" on pages 11 and 12 of the Proxy Statement.
Please refer to Part II, Item 5 for information relating to the Equity Compensation
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is
furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the caption
"Related-Party Transactions with Wal-Mart" on page 5 of the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
We maintain a set of disclosure controls
and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us
in the reports filed by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
("Exchange Act") is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
...
Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement
dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E.
Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation
II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella,
Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4(d)
...
to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-64740)
+10(a)
Form of
individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the year ended
January 31, 1986. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange
...
19 of 26
+10(f)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 333-24259).
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Officer Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i)
from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1996.
This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference
Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s file no. 1-6991.
...
January 31, 1998.
+10(k)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock
Incentive Plan of 1998 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) from the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1999.
+10(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Management Incentive Plan of 1998 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(m)
from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended January 31, 1999.
+10(m)
The Rules of the Asda
...
ratios
*13
The Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ending January 31, 2003. All information incorporated by
reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2001 is filed with the Commission.
The balance of this information in the Annual Report to Shareholders is funished to the
Commission in accordance with Item 601(13) of Regulation SK.
*21
List of the Company’s
...
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Consolidated Statements of Income
...
January 31, 2003 and 2002
31
Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity for each of the
three years in the period ended
January 31, 2003
32
...
Statements, except Note 12
34
Not Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Note 12 - Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)
50
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not
...
15, 2003
By
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE:
April
...
By  /s/ David
D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee
Of the Board and Director
DATE:
April
...
I, H. Lee Scott, Jr., certify that:
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the
"registrant");
Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;
The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14
and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
...
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial data and have identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses
in internal controls; and
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant's internal controls; and
The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report
whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors
...
I, Thomas M. Schoewe, certify that:
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the
"registrant");
Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;
The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14
and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
...
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial data and have identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses
in internal controls; and
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant's internal controls; and
The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report
whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors
[Total relevant lines: 897]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2003 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2004-04-09.html)
================================================================================
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
x
Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes
...
No
¨
As of July 31, 2003, the
aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange on July 31, 2003, was $147,165,337,887. For
the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s
common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The
registrant had 4,296,710,566 shares of common stock outstanding as of February 29, 2004.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, are incorporated
by reference into Parts I and II of this Form 10-K.
Portions
of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 4, 2004, are incorporated by reference into Parts II and III of this Form 10-K.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION
This Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that we have previously filed or that we may subsequently
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, incorporate by reference or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to
be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information
and announcements address activities, events or developments that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) expects or anticipates will or may
occur in the future, including:
•
future capital expenditures, including the amount and nature of those expenditures;
•
opening of additional stores and conversion of Discount Stores into Supercenters;
•
anticipated levels of change in comparative store sales from one period to another period;
•
expansion and other development trends of industry segments in which we and our subsidiaries are active;
•
our business strategy;
•
...
•
the cost of electricity and other energy requirements;
•
the cost of healthcare;
•
competitive pressures;
•
inflation;
•
consumer debt levels;
•
currency exchange fluctuations;
•
the cost of motor fuel;
2
•
trade restrictions;
...
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart operates retail stores in various formats around the world. Wal-Mart is committed to growing by improving the standard of living for our
customers throughout the world. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual
respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity. During the fiscal year
ended January 31, 2004, we had net sales of $256.3 billion.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment operations are comprised of three business segments. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 68% of our fiscal 2004 sales. This segment consists of three different
retail formats all of which operate in the United States including:
•
Discount Stores, which average approximately 98,000 square feet in size and offer a wide variety of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products;
•
Supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide variety of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; and
•
Neighborhood Markets, which average approximately 43,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited variety of general merchandise.
Our SAM’S CLUB segment consists of
membership warehouse clubs and accounts for 13.5% of our fiscal 2004 sales. SAM’S CLUB is in business for small businesses. Our focus for SAM’S CLUB is to provide exceptional value on brand name merchandise at “member’s
only” prices for both business and personal use. Our domestic SAM’S CLUBs average approximately 127,000 square feet in size.
Our International segment consists of retail operations in eight countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 18.5% of our fiscal 2004 sales. The
International segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs that operate outside the United States. Our international units average approximately 85,000
square feet in size. Additionally, we own an unconsolidated 37.8% minority interest in The Seiyu, Ltd. (“Seiyu”), a retailer in Japan.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8
th
Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716.
The Development of Our Company
Although
Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a
similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a Discount Store, was opened. In fiscal 1984, we opened
our first three SAM’S CLUBs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first Supercenter.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we had a 50% interest, with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the
controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand and at January 31, 2004, we had international operations
in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, South Korea, Mexico,
4
Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. We also operate through joint ventures in China and through a minority interest in
Japan.
At January 31, 2004, we operated in the United States
1,478 Discount Stores, 1,471 Supercenters, 538 SAM’S CLUBs and 64 Neighborhood Markets. Internationally, at January 31, 2004, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (25), Canada (235), Germany (92), South Korea (15), Mexico (623),
Puerto Rico (53) and the United Kingdom (267). We also operate through joint ventures in China (34). Additionally, we hold a 37.8% interest in Seiyu, a Japanese retail chain which operates approximately 400 stores throughout Japan.
Our growth, measured both by our net sales and net income, occurs in large
measure as a result of our domestic and international expansion programs along with comparative store sales increases. We consider comparative store sales to be sales at stores that were open as of February 1st of the prior fiscal year and which
have not been expanded or relocated during that period. Comparative store sales are also referred to as “same-store” sales by others within the retail industry.
The following tables provide summary information concerning the additions of units and square footage for domestic Discount
Stores, Supercenters, SAM’S CLUBs, Neighborhood Markets and international units in each of our fiscal years from 2000 through 2004.
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2000 THROUGH 2004
STORE COUNT (1)
Wal-Mart
Discount Stores
Wal-Mart
...
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions and relocations, of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
5
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2000 THROUGH 2004
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
Wal-Mart
...
(3)
Includes conversions and / or relocations of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
6
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2000 THROUGH 2004
CLUB COUNT (1)
...
(1)
Totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
7
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2000 THROUGH 2004
STORE COUNT (1)
Argentina
Brazil (2)
Canada
...
231
4
235
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal Year
...
34
92
15
Mexico
Puerto Rico
Fiscal Year
Wal-Mart
...
(1)
Totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
(2)
Store counts for Brazil do not include 118 units acquired from Bompreco S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004.
(3)
At January 31, 2004, includes 140 Bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 52 Suburbias (specialty department stores), 44 Superamas (traditional supermarkets), and 251
Vips (restaurants) compared to 118 Bodegas, 50 Suburbias, 44 Superamas, and 244 Vips at January 31, 2003. Excludes Vips franchises for all years presented.
8
United Kingdom
...
2
267
9
INTERNATIONAL NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2000 THROUGH 2004
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
Argentina
...
3,370,523
2,468,781
27,211,085
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal Year
...
13,267,514
17,345
2,909,020
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United Kingdom
Fiscal Year
...
Totals and Ending Balances are as of January 31, of the years shown.
(2)
Square footage for Brazil does not include 118 units acquired from Bompreco S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004.
Much of our growth internationally in recent years has resulted from our
acquisition of existing operations in various countries. During May 2002, the Company acquired its initial 6.1% stake in Seiyu, a Japanese retail chain, for approximately $51 million. In December 2002, the Company exercised in full the first in the
series of warrants granted allowing us to acquire 192.8 million new shares in Seiyu for approximately $432 million. After this exercise, our ownership percentage in Seiyu increased to approximately 37.7%. In August 2003, the Company purchased an
additional 20.2 million shares in Seiyu for approximately $38 million bringing our ownership percentage in Seiyu to approximately 37.8%. Under the terms of the agreement, Wal-Mart, through a series of warrants exercisable in specified series through
2007, can contribute approximately 235 billion yen, or $2.2 billion at a January 31, 2004 exchange rate of 105.7 yen per dollar, for additional shares of stock in Seiyu. If all the warrants are exercised, we will own approximately 69.4% of the stock
of Seiyu by the end of December 2007.
10
In December 2002, the Company completed its purchase of Supermercados Amigo, Inc. (“Amigo”), a
supermarket chain located in Puerto Rico with 37 supermarkets at the time of the acquisition. Six of the supermarkets were subsequently sold.
Subsequent to fiscal year-end 2004, in February 2004, the Company completed its purchase of Bompreco S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste
(“Bompreco”), a supermarket chain in northern Brazil with 118 hypermarkets, supermarkets and mini markets. The purchase price was approximately $300 million. The results of operations for Bompreco will be included in our consolidated
financial statements beginning in fiscal 2005.
We have
provided additional information regarding the accounting treatment of the acquisitions discussed above in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in our Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated by reference
herein and have been included as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Our
Industry Segments
Our mass merchandising
operations serve our customers primarily through the operation of three segments. We identify those segments based on Management responsibility within the United States and for total international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our
Discount Stores, Supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in the United States as well as the Wal-Mart.com (www.walmart.com) operation. The SAM’S CLUB segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States. The International segment
includes all of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. Wal-Mart’s portion of the results of our unconsolidated 37.8% minority interest in the Japanese retailer, Seiyu, is
included in the Other segment. You will find information concerning the financial results of our operating segments and the total assets of each of those segments in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have incorporated our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31, 2004 and for the year then ended and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well
as Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition by reference herein to our Annual Report to our Shareholders and included them as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Wal-Mart Stores Operating Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had net sales of $174.2 billion, $157.1 billion
and $139.1 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single Discount Store, Supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company
sales or net income.
General
We operate Wal-Mart
Discount Stores in all 50 states, Supercenters in 45 states and Neighborhood Markets in 12 states. Our Discount Stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 220,000 square feet, with the average size of a Discount Store being approximately 98,000
...
Merchandise
Wal-Mart Discount Stores and the general
merchandise area of Supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories,
horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cameras and supplies, photo processing, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical. In addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery
merchandise. The grocery assortment in our Supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery. Most of our Discount Stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery
merchandise while a number of our larger Discount Stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. Neighborhood Markets are generally organized into dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy,
frozen
11
foods, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise
and pet supplies.
Nationally advertised merchandise accounts
for a majority of sales in the stores. We market lines of merchandise under our store brands including “Sam’s American Choice,” “One Source,” “Great Value,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Puritan,”
“Equate,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic Works” and “Kid Connection.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “Faded Glory,”
“General Electric,” “Disney,” “Catalina,” “McDonald’s,” “Mary-Kate and Ashley” and “Starter.”
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, sales in Discount Stores and Supercenters (which are subject to seasonal variance) by product category
...
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Grocery, candy and tobacco
26
Hardgoods
20
...
9
Electronics
9
Health and beauty aids
7
Sporting goods and toys
6
...
100
%
Operations
Hours of operation for nearly all Supercenters and an increasing number of Discount Stores are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining Discount Stores vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., six days a week,
and from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sundays. Wal-Mart Discount Stores and Supercenters maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis with the objective of
maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover while minimizing expenses; however, we also accept credit cards and pin-based debit cards at all Discount Store, Supercenter and Neighborhood Market locations.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The Wal-Mart Stores operating
segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
Our Discount Stores compete with other discount,
department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national chains. Our Supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets and specialty stores, many of which are national or
regional chains. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites. As of January 31, 2004, based on net sales, the Wal-Mart Stores segment ranked first among all retail department store chains and among all discount department store chains.
Our ability to offer value and service to our customers
largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet the competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
Everyday Low Price (“EDLP”) – our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change
erratically under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass internal and external cost savings on to the customer;
...
12
In addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our high
in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with an additional competitive advantage.
Distribution
During fiscal 2004, approximately 80% of the
Discount Stores’ and Supercenters’ purchases of merchandise were shipped from Wal-Mart’s 90 distribution centers, of which 34 are general merchandise distribution centers, 30 are grocery distribution centers, seven are clothing
distribution centers and 15 are specialty distribution centers. The specialty distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to
stores from suppliers. Additionally, the Company operates three import distribution centers and one distribution center for online orders placed via www.walmart.com. The 90 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United States.
Ten distribution centers are located in Texas, nine in Arkansas; eight in Georgia; five in Indiana; four in each of California, New York and Ohio; three in each of Florida, Missouri, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia; two each in Alabama,
Arizona, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah and Wisconsin; and one each in Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Nebraska, Nevada, Oklahoma, and Oregon. General merchandise is
transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
SAM’S CLUB Operating Segment
The SAM’S CLUB segment had net sales of $34.5 billion, $31.7 billion and $29.4 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
We operate SAM’S CLUBs in 48 states. SAM’S CLUBs facility sizes generally range between 70,000 and 190,000 square feet,
with the average SAM’S CLUB facility being approximately 127,000 square feet. SAM’S CLUB provides to its members a broad assortment of merchandise and services on-line through the internet at www.samsclub.com.
Merchandise
SAM’S CLUB offers bulk displays of name-brand
merchandise, including hardgoods, some soft goods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the “Member’s Mark” and “Bakers & Chefs” brands. Generally, each SAM’S CLUB also carries
software, electronics, jewelry, floral, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books. Most Clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and Sam’s Cafe. Additionally, a significant number of our Clubs offer
photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, sales in the SAM’S CLUB segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows:
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Food
30
Sundries
28
...
Operating hours for SAM’S CLUBs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all Club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits
Business Members to shop before the regular opening hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
13
SAM’S CLUBs are membership only, cash-and-carry operations. Limited credit facilities are available
to include the “SAM’S Direct” commercial finance program and “Business Revolving Credit” available to qualifying business members. Also, we make a “Personal Credit” program available to qualifying club members and
accept the Discover Card in all Clubs. Credit extended to members under these programs is without recourse to the Company. Club members include businesses and those individuals who are members of certain qualifying organizations, such as credit
union members. In fiscal 2004, business members paid an annual membership fee of $30 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates for $30
each. The annual membership fee for an individual “Advantage” member is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. The SAM’S CLUB PLUS Membership program offers additional benefits and
services such as insurance services, roadside assistance, credit card processing, payroll processing, dental discount networks, and 401(k) and retirement programs. The annual membership fee for a PLUS Member is $100.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The SAM’S CLUB operating
segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
SAM’S CLUBs compete with other warehouse
clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. We also compete with other retailers for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise
determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution
During fiscal 2004, approximately 63% of the SAM’S CLUB purchases were shipped from the SAM’S CLUB segment’s dedicated distribution facilities. Suppliers shipped the balance of the SAM’S CLUB
purchases directly to SAM’S CLUB locations. The principal focus of our SAM’S CLUB’s distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments
are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without storage in between. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. A combination of seven Company owned and operated distribution
facilities and 12 third-party owned and operated facilities constitute the overall distribution structure for the SAM’S CLUB segment. Two of the Company owned and operated facilities are located in Texas with one located in each of Arizona,
Arkansas, Colorado, Minnesota and Indiana. Of the third-party owned and operated facilities, one of each is located in California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and
Washington. SAM’S CLUB uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport our non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to our Clubs. However, we contract with common carriers to transport our
perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to our Clubs.
International Operating Segment
Our
International segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Germany, South Korea, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in Brazil and Mexico and our
operations through joint ventures in China. Wal-Mart’s portion of the results of our unconsolidated 37.8% minority interest in Japanese retailer, Seiyu, is included in the Other segment. The International segment’s net sales for the fiscal
years ended January 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, were $47.6 billion, $40.8 billion and $35.5 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
Operating formats vary by country, but include Discount
Stores in Canada and Puerto Rico; Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Germany, South Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom; SAM’S CLUBs in Brazil, Canada, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Superamas (traditional supermarket),
Bodegas (combination discount and grocery store), Suburbias (specialty department store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico; Todo Dias (combination discount and grocery store) in Brazil; Neighborhood Markets (traditional supermarkets) in China; ASDA
stores (combination grocery and apparel store) and George stores (apparel store) in the United Kingdom; and Amigo supermarkets in Puerto Rico.
Merchandise
The merchandising strategy for the International operating segment is similar to that of domestic segments in the breadth and
scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name
14
merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed to
serve customers in the different markets in which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations
The hours of operation for operating units in the
International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance
programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The International operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter. The
seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition
The International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket,
discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale sectors of the retail market in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low
prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international units, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact
on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution
The International segment operates export consolidation facilities in California, Florida and Texas in support of product flow to its Mexican, Asian, and Latin American markets. We operate a
total of 53 distribution facilities that are located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and Mexico. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating
units. During fiscal 2004, approximately 76% of the International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various
countries in which we operate. A combination of Company owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for International logistics.
Employees (Associates)
As of January 31, 2004, the Company employed approximately 1.5 million Associates worldwide, with approximately 1.2 million
Associates in the United States and approximately 360,000 Associates in foreign countries. Most Associates participate in incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon the Company’s productivity
or profitability.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com. We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our
website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. Our SEC filings can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website, the address of which is
http://investor.walmartstores.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=112761&p=irol-sec
15
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The number and location of domestic and international Wal-Mart Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs and other
formats is incorporated by reference to the table under the caption “Fiscal 2004 End-of-Year Store Count” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004, which information we have included as an exhibit
to this Annual Report.
As of January 31, 2004, we own
2,102 of the properties on which our domestic Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets and Supercenters are located and 389 of the properties on which our domestic SAM’S CLUBs are located. In some cases, we own the land associated with leased
buildings in which our Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs are located. We either lease the remaining buildings in which our present domestic locations are located from a commercial property developer, lease them
pursuant to sale/leaseback arrangements or lease them from a local governmental entity in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for fixed annual rentals and, in many cases, the leases provide for
additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent
contractors to construct our buildings.
Domestically, we
operated 90 Wal-Mart distribution facilities and 19 SAM’S CLUB distribution facilities as of January 31, 2004. With the exception of 12 SAM’S CLUB distribution facilities that are leased, we own the remaining distribution facilities,
several of which are subject to mortgages granted to secure loans obtained to finance their development. We also lease some of the distribution facilities under industrial development bond financing arrangements that provide us with the option to
purchase those facilities at the end of the lease term for nominal amounts.
We own the office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office. We lease an office facility in Brisbane, California that serves as the home office for Wal-Mart.com
We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a combination
of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment operates. As of January 31, 2004, we own 9 properties in Argentina, 14 properties in Brazil, 51 properties in Canada, 1 property in China, 19 properties in Germany, 15
properties in South Korea, 316 properties in Mexico, 7 properties in Puerto Rico and 176 properties in the United Kingdom in which the operating units are located, with the remaining units in each country being leased. We utilize both owned and
leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. Outside the United States, we utilized 53 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2004. Of these 53 distribution facilities, we owned 29 and leased 1.
Third parties own and operated the remaining 23 distribution facilities.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Item 8. Financial Statements,” in Note 8 to our financial statements, which is captioned
“Litigation,” and refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such action and the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal
proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc.:
Wage and Hour “Off the Clock” Class Actions:
Armijo
v. WM,
1
st
Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v. WM,
Marion County Superior Ct.
IN, 8/17/00;
Barnett v. WM,
...
Salvas v. WM,
Superior Ct., Middlesex County, MA,
8/21/01;
Kuhlmann (In Re: Wal-Mart Employee Litigation) v. WM,
Circuit Ct., Milwaukee County, WI, 8/30/01;
Lerma v. WM,
Dist. Ct., Cleveland County, OK, 8/31/01;
...
COLI Litigation:
Mayo v. Hartford Life Ins. Co.,
USDC, Southern Dist. of TX, Houston Div., 6/28/01;
Waller v. AIG Life Ins. Co.,
USDC, Northern Dist.
of TX, Fort Worth Div., 7/3/01;
Rice v. WM,
...
12/24/02; Middlesex Superior Ct., MA.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires
disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
During fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against the Company in the Superior Court for the Judicial District of Hartford alleging various
violations of state environmental laws and alleging that the Company failed to obtain the appropriate permits or failed to maintain required records relating to storm water management practices at 12 stores. In December 2003, the State filed an
amended complaint alleging that the Company also had discharged wastewater associated with vehicle maintenance activities and photo processing activities without proper permits. The suit seeks to ensure the Company’s compliance with the general
permits applicable to those activities.
The United States
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has alleged that the Company and some of its construction contractors have violated the EPA’s stormwater regulations on specific sites primarily in Colorado and Utah, but also in other parts of
...
resolution process in accordance with the terms of the consent decree. The Company also filed a copy of the Notice of Dispute with the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas.
17
On July 29, 2002, the EPA advised the Company that it had initiated an investigation involving the
Company’s compliance with sections 608 and 609 of the Clean Air Act and regulations promulgated thereunder with regard to the sales of Class I and Class II refrigerant products. The statutes provide that the sales of these products are
restricted to persons and/or entities which are properly licensed. The EPA asserts that, during the relevant time period, the Company made approximately 20 such sales to non-licensed persons and/or entities. The Company has reached an agreement to
settle these allegations without admitting any wrongdoing or violations of the statutes by paying a $400,000 civil penalty and entering into a Consent Decree with the EPA. When approved by the court, the Consent Decree will require that the Company
comply fully with the relevant Clean Air Act sections and regulations in the future.
In August 2003, the Company was served with a grand jury subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Office of District Attorney of Harris County, Texas. The subpoena seeks information related to the waste
disposal activities of one of the Company’s photo processing labs. The Company is cooperating with the investigation.
In the Spring of 2003, an investigation was initiated by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (“FDEP”) in connection with the
Company’s alleged failure to comply with certain rules and regulations governing the ownership and operation of above-ground storage tank systems as set forth in Chapter 62-761, Florida Administrative Code. Negotiations between the Company and
the FDEP to resolve this matter have commenced.
III.
IMMIGRATION MATTER:
On or about October 30, 2003, Wal-Mart was formally advised by the United States Attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania that it was the “target” of a federal grand jury investigation. The notice from the
government did not identify the nature of the allegations against Wal-Mart, but rather generally indicated that Wal-Mart was the target of a grand jury investigation assessing potential violations of Federal law including conspiracy, aiding and
abetting transporting illegal aliens and encouraging illegal aliens to reside in the United States, all for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain, and aiding and abetting the unlawful employment of illegal aliens. Wal-Mart
believes the grand jury investigation relates to its relationship with certain third-party contractors providing floor cleaning services to Wal-Mart and those contractors’ alleged employment of individuals who may be in the United States
illegally. The Grand Jury investigation is on-going. Any potential liability on the part of the Company cannot be determined at this time.
On or about November 10, 2003, a civil action was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, captioned
Zavala et al. v. Wal-Mart Corporation, et al
., Case No. 03-CV-5309. This complaint asserts claims under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organizations Act, and various statutory causes of action and common law
torts arising from the Company’s relationship with certain third-party contractors responsible for providing floor cleaning services in its stores. Any potential liability on the part of the Company cannot be determined at this time.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s
security holders during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004.
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the “Number of Shareholders of Record” under the caption “11-Year Financial Summary”, and all the information under the
captions “Market Price of Common Stock,” “Listings—Stock Symbol: WMT” and “Dividends Per Common Share” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004. Such information is included
in an exhibit to this Annual Report.
18
Information about our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to all information under the
caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Friday, June 4, 2004 (the “Proxy Statement”).
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “11-Year Financial Summary” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION
The information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January
31, 2004. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report.
ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” of the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Auditors” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to Management in a timely fashion. An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
Wal-Mart’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”))(“Disclosure Controls”) was performed as of the end of the period covered by
this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, the
...
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors and compliance by the Company’s
directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company’s Common Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions entitled “Nominees for
Election to the Board of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
...
Held Since
Age
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board.
1992
59
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee of the Board. Prior to January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
2000
68
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer. From January 1999 to January 2000, he served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From January 1998 to January 1999, he served
as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores Division. Prior to January 1998, he served as Executive Vice President – Merchandising of the Company.
2000
55
Thomas M. Coughlin
Vice Chairman of the Board. From April 2003 to June 2003, he served as Executive Vice President and Vice Chairman of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (USA). From August 2002 to April 2003, he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores and SAM’S CLUB Divisions. From January 1999 to August 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores
Division. From January 1998 to January 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores Division. Prior to January 1998, he served as Executive Vice President—Store Operations of the
Company.
...
54
Michael T. Duke
Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores Division. From July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President of Administration. From
March 2000 to July 2000, he served as Executive Vice President of Logistics. From July 1995 to March 2000, he served as Senior Vice President of Logistics. Prior to July 1995, he served as Senior Vice President of Distribution.
2003
54
20
...
2002
38
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From July 2001 to June 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Senior General Counsel. Prior to July
2001, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Raytheon Company since 1992.
2001
55
John B. Menzer
Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart International. Prior to June 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company.
1999
53
...
2000
51
Charles M. Holley, Jr.
Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company. From March 1999 to January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart International. From
October 1996 to March 1999 he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart International.
2003
47
Additional information
regarding our Board and Committee Governing Documents, our Audit Committee, our director nomination process, and our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption
entitled “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee Report on
Executive Compensation,” “Summary Compensation,” “Option Grants In Last Fiscal Year” and “Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year End Option Values” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Stock Ownership”, subcaptions “Holdings of Major Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” included in our Proxy Statement. In
addition, please refer to Part II, Item 5 for information relating to the Equity Compensation.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions” included in
our Proxy Statement.
21
...
4
(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James
E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4
(d)
...
333-101847).
+ 10
(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the fiscal year
ended January 31, 1986. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s file no. 1-6991.
+ 10
(b)
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
+ 10
(f)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 333-24259).
+ *10
(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective March 31, 2003.
+ 10
(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31,
...
year ended January 31, 1998.
+ *10
(k)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 1998 as amended through January 15, 2004.
+ *10
(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan of 1998 as amended and restated effective February 1, 2003.
+ 10
(m)
The Rules of the Asda Sharesave Plan 2000 are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31,
...
*12
Statement re computation of ratios.
*13
The Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ending January 31, 2004. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2004 is filed with the Commission. The balance of this information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the Commission in accordance with Item 601(13) of Regulation
S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Subsidiaries.
...
Reports on Form 8-K.
(1)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on February 18, 2003, providing under Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits” and Item 9. “Regulation FD
Disclosure” a press release issued by the Company regarding its results of operations for its fourth quarter and its fiscal year ended January 31, 2003.
(2)
The Company filed a report on Form 8-K on February 19, 2003 reporting under Item 5. “Other Events and Required FD Disclosure” that Mr. Charles M. Holley became Senior Vice
President and Controller of the Company effective January 21, 2003 and will be the principal accounting officer of the Company.
(3)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K/A on February 21, 2003 providing under Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits” and Item 9. “Regulation FD
Disclosure” a corrected copy of the press release issued on February 18, 2003.
(4)
The Company filed a report on Form 8-K on February 24, 2003 reporting under Item 5. “Other Events” that the Company completed the sale to Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated of $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Floating Rate Notes Due 2005 pursuant to a Pricing Agreement dated as of February 18, 2003 by and between the Company and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated. The
...
Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., acting for themselves and as the representatives for the other underwriters named in Schedule I of the Pricing Agreement. The Company included under Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits”
the material documentation regarding the sale of the Company’s 4.55% Notes Due 2013.
(6)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on May 7, 2003 providing under Item 12. “Results of Operations and Financial Condition” a press release that was to be issued on
May 8, 2003 disclosing information regarding the Company’s results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2003.
24
(7)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on May 13, 2003 providing under Item 12. “Results of Operations and Financial Condition” a press release that was to be issued
on May 13, 2003 disclosing information regarding the Company’s results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2003.
(8)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on August 7, 2003 providing under Item 12. “Results of Operations and Financial Condition” a press release issued on August 7,
2003 disclosing information regarding the Company’s expected results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2003.
(9)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on August 13, 2003 providing under Item 12. “Results of Operations and Financial Condition” a press release that was to be
issued on August 13, 2003 disclosing information regarding the Company’s results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2003.
(10)
The Company filed a report on Form 8-K on September 30, 2003 reporting under Item 5. “Other Events” that the Company completed the underwritten offer and sale of
$1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 3.375% Notes Due 2008 pursuant to a Pricing Agreement (the “Pricing Agreement”) dated as of September 25, 2003 by and between the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, acting for themselves and as the representatives for the other underwriters named in Schedule I of the Pricing Agreement. The Company included under Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits” the material
documentation regarding the sale of the Company’s 3.375% Notes Due 2008. In addition, the Company furnished under Item 9. “Regulation FD Disclosure” information regarding certain reclassifications and restatements of amounts included
in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
(11)
The Company filed a report on Form 8-K on October 7, 2003 reporting under Item 5. “Other Events” that the Company completed the underwritten offer and sale of
...
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, acting for themselves and as the representatives for the other underwriters named in Schedule I of the Pricing Agreement. The Company included under Item 7. “Financial Statements and Exhibits” the Opinion of
Hughes & Luce, L.L.P. regarding the legality of the Company’s 3.375% Notes Due 2008.
(12)
The Company furnished a report on Form 8-K on November 13, 2003 providing under Item 12. “Results of Operations and Financial Condition” a press release that was to be
issued on November 13, 2003 disclosing information regarding the Company’s results of operations for its fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2003.
25
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2004
33
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2004 and 2003
34
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2004
35
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2004
36
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, except Note 12
37
Not Covered by Report of Independent Auditors:
Note 12—Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
52
All schedules have been omitted
because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE:             April 9, 2004
By
/s/ David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee
of the Board and Director
DATE:             April 9, 2004
By
[Total relevant lines: 694]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2004 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2005-03-31.html)
================================================================================
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.
x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes
...
No
¨
As of July 31, 2004, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange on July 31, 2004, was $133,475,003,872. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial
owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 4,233,002,095 shares of common stock outstanding as of March
21, 2005.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, are incorporated by reference into
Parts I and II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Form 10-K”). Portions of our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 3, 2005, are incorporated by reference into Parts II and III of this
Form 10-K. Those materials are included as exhibits to this Form 10-K.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that we have previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, incorporate by reference or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information and
announcements address activities, events or developments that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, including the amount and nature of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States, opening of additional units in the other countries in which we operate, conversion of Discount Stores into
Supercenters, anticipated levels of change in comparative store sales from one period to another period, expansion and other development trends of retail industry, our business strategy, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business,
changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, our anticipated earnings per share for certain periods, and other similar matters. Although we believe the expectations expressed
in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by
us or on our behalf.
Our business operations are subject to
factors outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors could materially affect our financial performance, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include: the cost of goods, labor costs, the cost of fuel and
electricity, the cost of healthcare, competitive pressures, inflation, accident-related costs, consumer buying patterns and debt levels, weather patterns, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates,
changes in tax law, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, unemployment levels, interest rate fluctuations, changes in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions. The foregoing list of
factors that may affect our performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our
behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements.
Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments anticipated by us will be realized or,
even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business or our operations in the way we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We assume no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements.
Our business operations, financial condition and results of operations are subject to certain risks. For further information, see the caption “Risk
Factors” under “Item 1. Business.”
2
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
...
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) operates retail stores in various formats around the world. Wal-Mart is committed
to growing by improving the standard of living for our customers throughout the world. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices (“EDLP”) while
fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under
frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, we had net sales of $285.2 billion.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 67.3% of our fiscal 2005 sales. This segment consists of three
different retail formats, all of which operate in the United States, including:
•
Discount Stores, which average approximately 100,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products;
•
Supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; and
•
Neighborhood Markets, which average approximately 43,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise.
Our SAM’S CLUB segment consists of
membership warehouse clubs which operate in the United States and accounts for 13.0% of our fiscal 2005 sales. Our focus for SAM’S CLUB is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at “members only” prices for both
business and personal use. Our SAM’S CLUBs average approximately 128,000 square feet in size.
Our International segment consists of retail operations in eight countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 19.7% of our fiscal 2005 sales. The
International segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs that operate outside the United States. Additionally, we own an unconsolidated minority interest
of approximately 37% of The Seiyu, Ltd. (“Seiyu”), a retailer in Japan.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716.
The Development of Our Company
Although Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a
franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In
that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a Discount Store, was opened. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three SAM’S CLUBs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first Supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood
Market.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international
initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we had a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially
changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand and at January 31, 2005, we had international operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South
Korea and the United Kingdom. We also operate through joint ventures in China and own a minority interest in Seiyu.
At January 31, 2005, we operated in the United States 1,353 Discount Stores, 1,713 Supercenters, 551 SAM’S CLUBs and 85 Neighborhood Markets.
Internationally, at January 31, 2005, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (149), Canada (262), Germany (91), South Korea (16), Mexico (679), Puerto Rico (54) and the United Kingdom (282). We also operated 43 stores through joint
ventures in China at January 31, 2005. Additionally, Seiyu then operated 403 stores throughout Japan.
3
Our growth, measured both by our net sales and net income, occurs in large measure as a result of our
domestic and international expansion programs along with comparative store sales increases. We consider comparative store sales to be sales at stores that were open as of February 1st of the prior fiscal year and which have not been expanded or
relocated since that date. Comparative store sales are also referred to as “same-store” sales by others within the retail industry. The method of calculating comparative store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our
calculation of comparative store sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The following tables provide summary information concerning the additions of units and square footage for Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood
Markets and SAM’S CLUBs in the United States, and international units in each of our fiscal years from 2001 through 2005.
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2001 THROUGH 2005
STORE COUNT (1)
Wal-Mart
Discount Stores
Wal-Mart
...
1,713
Neighborhood
Markets
Total Wal-Mart Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Total
...
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions and relocations of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
4
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2001 THROUGH 2005
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (in thousands) (1)
Wal-Mart
...
320,056
Neighborhood
Markets
Total Wal-Mart Segment
Fiscal Year
Net Additions
Total
...
(3)
Includes conversions and relocations of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
5
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2001 THROUGH
2005
...
(1)
Totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
6
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2001 THROUGH 2005
STORE COUNT (1)
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
...
256
6
262
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal Year
...
43
91
16
Mexico
Puerto Rico
Fiscal Year
Wal-Mart
...
(2)
Includes 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004.
(3)
At January 31, 2005, includes 162 Bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 50 Suburbias (specialty department stores), 48 Superamas (traditional supermarkets) and 269 Vips
(restaurants) compared to 140 Bodegas, 52 Suburbias, 44 Superamas and 251 Vips at January 31, 2004. Excludes Vips franchises for all years presented.
7
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2001 THROUGH 2005
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (in thousands) (1)
Argentina
...
11,393
2,742
29,953
China
Germany
South Korea
Fiscal Year
...
13,150
195
3,104
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United Kingdom
Grand Total
...
Totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
(2)
Includes 7,581 square feet for the 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004.
Much of our growth internationally in recent years has resulted from our
acquisition of existing operations in various countries. During May 2002, the Company acquired its initial 6.1% stake in Seiyu, a Japanese retail chain, for approximately $51 million. In December 2002, the Company acquired 192.8 million additional
shares in Seiyu for approximately $432 million through the exercise of the first in the series of warrants previously granted to us. Following this exercise and our purchase of 29.3 million additional Seiyu shares in other Seiyu securities
offerings, our ownership percentage in Seiyu increased to approximately 37%. Through a series of warrants exercisable through 2007, we can contribute approximately ¥235 billion, or $2.3 billion at a January 31, 2005 exchange rate of 103.68 yen
per dollar, for additional shares of Seiyu stock. If the next tranche of warrants is exercised in December 2005, the Company will own more than 50% of Seiyu. If all the warrants are exercised, we will own approximately 70% of the stock of Seiyu by
the end of December 2007.
In December 2002, the Company
completed its purchase of Supermercados Amigo, Inc. (“Amigo”), a supermarket chain located in Puerto Rico with 37 supermarkets at the time of the acquisition. Six of the supermarkets were subsequently sold.
In February 2004, the Company completed its purchase of Bompreço S.A.
Supermercados do Nordeste (“Bompreço”), a supermarket chain in northern Brazil with 118 hypermarkets, supermarkets and mini-markets.
8
We have provided additional information regarding the accounting treatment of the acquisitions discussed
above in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in our Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated by reference herein and have been included as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Our Industry Segments
Our retail operations serve our customers primarily through three segments. We identify those segments based on management
responsibility within the United States and in total for international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our Discount Stores, Supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in the United States as well as Walmart.com. The SAM’S CLUB segment
includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom. Our
share of the results of our unconsolidated 37% minority interest in the Japanese retailer, Seiyu, is not included in the International segment. You will find information concerning the financial results of our operating segments and the total assets
of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have incorporated our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January
31, 2005 and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition by reference herein to our Annual Report to Shareholders, which
is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Wal-Mart
Stores Operating Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had
net sales of $191.8 billion, $174.2 billion and $157.1 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single Discount Store, Supercenter or Neighborhood Market location
accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
We operate Wal-Mart Discount Stores in all 50 states, Supercenters in 45 states and Neighborhood Markets in 14 states. Our Discount Stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 220,000 square feet, with the average
size of a Discount Store being approximately 100,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 100,000 square feet to 261,000 square feet, with the average size of a Supercenter being approximately 187,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets range
...
Merchandise
Wal-Mart Discount Stores and the general
merchandise area of Supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories,
horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. In addition, our stores offer an assortment
of grocery merchandise. The grocery assortment in our Supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery. Most of our Discount Stores carry a limited assortment of dry
grocery merchandise while a number of our larger Discount Stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. Neighborhood Markets are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat,
produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies.
Nationally advertised merchandise accounts for a significant portion of sales in the Wal-Mart Stores segment. We also market
lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including “Sam’s Choice,” “One Source,” “Great Value,” “Everstart,” “Everactive,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Puritan,”
“Equate,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic Works” and “Kid Connection.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “Faded Glory,”
“General Electric,” “Disney,” “Catalina,” “McDonald’s,” “Mary-Kate and Ashley” and “Starter.”
9
...
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Grocery, candy and tobacco
28
%
Hardgoods
...
Electronics
9
%
Health and beauty aids
7
%
Sporting goods and toys
...
100
%
Operations
Hours of operation for nearly all Supercenters and an increasing number of Discount Stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining Discount Stores and Neighborhood
Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week. The retail stores in our Wal-Mart Stores segment maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily
on a cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover while minimizing expenses; however, we also accept personal checks, credit cards and pin-based debit cards at all Discount Store, Supercenter and
Neighborhood Market locations.
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations
The Wal-Mart Stores operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
Our
Discount Stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national chains. Our Supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets and specialty
stores, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites. As of January 31, 2005
,
the Wal-Mart Stores segment ranked first, based on net sales, among all retail department store chains
and among all discount department store chains.
Our ability to
offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet the competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
Everyday Low Price (“EDLP”) – our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change
erratically under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass internal and external cost savings on to the customer;
...
In addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides
one-stop shopping, our high in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with an additional competitive
advantage.
Distribution
During fiscal 2005,
approximately 81% of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped from Wal-Mart’s 99 distribution centers, of which 37 are general merchandise distribution centers, 34 are grocery distribution centers, seven are
clothing distribution centers and 16 are specialty distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. In addition to serving the Wal-Mart Stores segment, some of our grocery distribution centers
also serve our SAM’S CLUB segment for perishable items. The specialty distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. Additionally, the Company operates four import distribution
centers and one distribution center for online orders placed via Walmart.com. The 99 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United
10
States. Eleven distribution centers are located in Texas, nine in Arkansas; eight in Georgia; seven in California; five
in Indiana; four in each of Florida, New York and Ohio; three in each of Alabama, Missouri, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Virginia; two each in Arizona, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah and Wisconsin;
and one each in Colorado, Delaware, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, Oklahoma, Oregon and Washington. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet.
However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
SAM’S CLUB Operating Segment
The SAM’S CLUB segment had net sales of $37.1 billion, $34.5 billion and $31.7 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
We operate SAM’S CLUBs in 48 states. Facility sizes for SAM’S CLUBs generally range between 70,000 and 190,000 square
feet, with the average SAM’S CLUB facility being approximately 128,000 square feet. SAM’S CLUB provides to its members a broad assortment of merchandise and services on-line at www.samsclub.com.
Merchandise
SAM’S CLUB offers bulk displays of brand name
merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB” brands. Generally, each
SAM’S CLUB also carries software, electronics, jewelry, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books. Most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and Sam’s Cafe. Additionally, a significant number of
our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, sales in the SAM’S CLUB segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows:
CATEGORY
PERCENTAGE
OF SALES
Food
31
%
Sundries
...
Operations
Operating hours for SAM’S CLUBs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold
Key program that permits Business Members to shop before the regular opening hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
SAM’S CLUBs are membership only, cash-and-carry operations. Limited credit facilities are available, including the “SAM’S Direct”
commercial finance program and “Business Revolving Credit” available to qualifying business members. Also, we make a “Personal Credit” program available to qualifying club members and accept the Discover Card in all clubs. Credit
extended to members under these programs is without recourse to the Company. Typical club Members include business owners and operators. Individuals who are not business owners can become “Advantage” members by paying a membership fee. In
fiscal 2005, business members paid an annual membership fee of $30 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates for $30 each. The annual
membership fee for an individual “Advantage” member is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. The SAM’S CLUB PLUS Membership program offers additional benefits and value on services.
The annual membership fee for a PLUS Member is $100.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The SAM’S CLUB operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday
season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition
SAM’S CLUBs compete with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. We also compete with other retailers for
desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution
During fiscal 2005, approximately 62% of the
SAM’S CLUB purchases were shipped from the SAM’S CLUB segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and some of our grocery distribution centers for perishable items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the SAM’S CLUB purchases
directly to SAM’S CLUB locations. The principal focus of our SAM’S CLUB’s distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which
11
shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without storage in between. Shipments typically
spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. A combination of seven Company-owned and operated distribution facilities and twelve third-party owned and operated facilities constitute the overall distribution
structure for the SAM’S CLUB segment. Two of the Company-owned and operated facilities are located in Texas with single facilities located in Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Minnesota and Indiana. The third-party owned and operated facilities are
in California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Washington. SAM’S CLUB uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport our
non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to our clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport our perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to our clubs.
International Operating Segment
Our International segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Germany, Puerto Rico, South Korea, and
the United Kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in Brazil and Mexico and our operations through joint ventures in China. Wal-Mart’s portion of the results of our unconsolidated 37% minority interest in Japanese retailer,
Seiyu, is included in the Other segment. The International segment’s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were $56.3 billion, $47.6 billion and $40.8 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General
Operating formats vary by country, and include Discount Stores in Canada and Puerto Rico; Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Germany, South Korea, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United
Kingdom; SAM’S CLUBs in Brazil, Canada, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; Superamas (traditional supermarket), Bodegas (combination discount and grocery store), Suburbias (specialty department store) and Vips (restaurant) in Mexico; Todo Dias
(combination discount and grocery store) and Balaios (discount food and general merchandise store) in Brazil; Neighborhood Markets (traditional supermarkets) in China; ASDA stores (combination grocery and apparel store) and George stores (apparel
store) in the United Kingdom; and Amigo supermarkets in Puerto Rico.
Merchandise
The merchandising strategy for the International operating segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name
merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to
develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by individual markets within
countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods
by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations
The International operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and
religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition
The International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale
sectors of the retail market in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in
the International operating segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international units, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the
markets where we operate.
Distribution
The
International operating segment operates export consolidation facilities in California, Florida, Pennsylvania and Texas in support of product flow to its Mexican, Canadian, Asian, and Latin American markets. We operate a total of 58 distribution
facilities that are located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units. During fiscal 2005,
approximately 76% of the International operating segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International operating segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various
countries in which we operate. A combination of Company-owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for the International operating segment.
12
Employees (“Associates”)
As of January 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 1.7 million Associates worldwide, with approximately 1.3 million
Associates in the United States and approximately 410,000 Associates in foreign countries. In the United States, the Company offers a broad range of company paid benefits to our Associates, including a profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount
cards, bonuses based on Company performance, discounted stock purchase program and life insurance. The Company also offers health care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time Associates. After the first year, the Company’s medical plan has
no lifetime maximum for most expenses.
In our operations
outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of Associate benefits which vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Risk Factors
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only
ones that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic and other conditions, both domestically and
internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, unfavorable foreign exchange rates and economic
factors that adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise we offer, change the mix of products sold to one with a lower average gross margin, result in increased cost of sales, slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory
could adversely affect the financial performance of our Wal-Mart Stores and SAM’S CLUBs operations in the United States. High levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments
in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely
affect our operations and operating results in those countries.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of Discount Stores into Supercenters.
The growth in the net sales and operating net income of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and our SAM’S CLUB segment depends to a substantial degree on our
expansion programs. Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have
operations. Our ability to open additional Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM’S CLUBs and to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified
personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to
convert Discount Stores into Supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our Discount Stores into Supercenters. If we
are unable to open new Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets or SAM’S CLUBs or continue to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets
into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by
selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as by opening of new units in the countries in which we are currently operating. As in the United States, our ability to
open new stores in our current markets depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive
pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units in certain markets. If we do not effectively execute our
expansion plans for our International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We can give no assurance that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices or be successful in consummating the
acquisition of any such candidate. In addition, while we believe we will be ultimately able to integrate successfully any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be
successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our
existing operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
13
Failure to attract and retain qualified Associates and other labor issues could adversely affect
our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to
expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified Associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while controlling our Associate wage and related
labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and
changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club
operators.
The retail business is highly competitive.
Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products, services and other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign
countries in which we have operations. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and
catalog businesses. Our SAM’s CLUB segment competes with other wholesale club operators. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarket, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts,
wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection, services offered to customers, location and price. Our ability to offer
value and service to our customers through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and Store of the Community, have allowed us to successfully compete against our competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete
effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods sold. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail
markets could affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business.” below for additional discussion of our competitive situation.
Certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter
the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greater financial resources, better access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business
combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the vendors from whom our products are sourced
could adversely affect our financial performance.
The
products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our vendors must comply with applicable laws,
including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a
significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our vendor standards, merchandise quality issues, trade
restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could adversely affect our financial
performance.
Our International operations subject us to
risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate.
We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United
Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China. We also own a minority interest in Seiyu, a retailer in Japan. During fiscal 2005, our International operations generated 19.7% of our net sales. Our future operating results in these
countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory
constraints, currency regulations and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future
costs or on future cash flows from our International operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws,
regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks
inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of
14
managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property
rights. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to
differences in culture, laws and regulations.
We are
subject to certain legal proceedings that may affect our financial condition and results of operation.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided
adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have
brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and
wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female Associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against
women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees. The U.S. District Court hearing this case has issued an order granting in part
and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. We discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com. We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the
SEC. Our SEC filings can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website, the address of which is:
http://investor.walmartstores.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=112761&p=irol-sec
. Our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement
of Ethics can be located in the Corporate Governance section of the Investor Relations webpage at
http://investor.walmartstores.com
. These documents, as well as our SEC filings are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy
from our Investor Relations Department.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The number and location of United States and
international Wal-Mart Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs and other formats is incorporated by reference to the table under the caption “Fiscal 2005 End-of-Year Store Count” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended January 31, 2005, which information we have included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States
As of January 31, 2005, in the United States, we owned 2,303 of the properties on which Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets
and Supercenters were located and 407 of the properties on which our SAM’S CLUBs were located. In some cases, we own the land associated with leased buildings in which our Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs
are located. In the United States, we either lease the remaining buildings in which our present stores and clubs are located from a commercial property developer, lease them pursuant to sale/leaseback arrangements or lease them from a local
governmental entity in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for fixed annual rentals and, in many cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.
As of January 31, 2005, we operated 99 Wal-Mart distribution facilities. We
lease 15 of the distribution facilities under industrial development bond and other financing arrangements that provide us with the option to purchase those facilities at the end of the lease term for nominal amounts. We own seven SAM’S CLUB
distribution facilities.
We own the office facilities in
Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office. We lease an office facility in Brisbane, California that serves as the home office for Walmart.com
International
We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in
which our International segment operates. As of January 31, 2005, we owned 9 properties in Argentina, 80 properties in Brazil, 80 properties in Canada, 1 property in China, 19 properties in Germany, 16 properties in South Korea, 344 properties in
Mexico, 10 properties in Puerto Rico and 180 properties in the United Kingdom in which the operating units are located, with the remaining units in each country being leased. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each
country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations are supported by 58 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2005. Of these 58 distribution facilities, we owned 32 and leased 10. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 16 distribution facilities.
15
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
: We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Part II of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K under the caption “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in Note 8 to our financial statements, which is captioned “Litigation,” and refer you to that discussion for important information concerning
those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the
lawsuit is pending and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage and Hour “Off the Clock” Class Actions
:
Adcox v. WM
, US Dist. Ct. (“USDC”), Southern
...
, 1
st
Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v.
WM
, Marion County Superior Ct. IN, 8/17/00;
Barnett v. WM
...
Iliadis v.
WM
, Superior Ct. of NJ, Middlesex County, 5/30/02;
Kuhlmann (In Re: Wal-Mart Employee Litigation) v. WM
, Circuit Ct., Milwaukee County, WI, 8/30/01;
Lerma v. WM
, Dist. Ct., Cleveland County, OK, 8/31/01;
...
:
Mayo v. Hartford Life Ins. Co.
, USDC, Southern Dist. of TX, Houston Div., 6/28/01;
Waller v. AIG Life Ins. Co.
,
USDC, Northern Dist. of TX, Fort Worth Div., 7/3/01;
Miller v. WM
...
Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS
: Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
During fiscal 2001, the State of Connecticut filed suit against the Company in the Superior Court for the Judicial District
of Hartford alleging various violations of state environmental laws and alleging that the Company failed to obtain the appropriate permits or failed to maintain required records relating to storm water management practices at 12 stores. In December
2003, the State filed an amended complaint alleging that the Company also had discharged wastewater associated with vehicle maintenance activities and photo processing activities without proper permits. The suit seeks to ensure the Company’s
compliance with the general permits applicable to those activities.
16
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and the states of Tennessee and Utah
have alleged that the Company and some of its construction contractors have violated the EPA’s stormwater regulations at specified sites around the country. On July 31, 2003, the Company served the EPA with a Notice of Dispute as required by a
national consent decree entered into between the Company and the EPA in August 2001. Serving the Notice of Dispute initiated an informal dispute resolution process in accordance with the terms of the consent decree. The Company has settled these
allegations without admitting any wrongdoing or violations of the regulations by agreeing to pay a $3.1 million civil penalty and entering into a new consent decree. The parties are awaiting entry by the court of the final Consent Decree.
In August 2003, the Company was served with a grand jury
subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Office of District Attorney of Harris County, Texas, seeking information related to the waste disposal activities of one of the Company’s photo processing labs. The Company is cooperating with
the investigation.
III. IMMIGRATION MATTER
: On March 18, 2005, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced the conclusion and settlement, on a civil basis, of its grand jury investigation into the Company’s potential violations of Federal immigration laws involving certain
third-party contractors that provided floor cleaning services to certain Wal-Mart stores, and those contractors’ alleged employment of undocumented workers. As part of the civil settlement, the Company has agreed to cooperate with the
government’s ongoing investigation; to pay $11 million to support future law enforcement activities by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement; to provide training to store managers on relevant immigration laws and regulations; and to
put controls in place to ensure that third-party contractors are taking reasonable steps to comply with immigration laws.
On November 10, 2003, a civil action was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, captioned
Zavala, et al. v. Wal-Mart Corporation, et al.
, Case No. 03-CV-5309. This complaint asserts claims under the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”), the Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organizations Act, and various statutory causes of
action and common law torts arising from the Company’s relationship with certain third-party contractors responsible for providing floor cleaning services in its stores. In December 2004, the district court conditionally certified the
plaintiffs’ wage claims for notice purposes under the FLSA. Any potential liability on the part of the Company cannot be determined at this time.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s security holders during the last quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the “Number of Shareholders of Record” under the caption “11-Year Financial Summary”, and all the information under the captions “Market Price of Common
Stock,” “Listings—Stock Symbol: WMT” and “Dividends Per Common Share” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2005. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Information about our equity compensation plans
is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Friday, June 3, 2005
(the “Proxy Statement”).
In September 2004, our
Board of Directors approved a new $10.0 billion share repurchase program, separate from and replacing the previous $7.0 billion program approved in January 2004. Shares purchased under our share repurchase programs are constructively retired and
returned to unissued status. There is no expiration date for or other restriction limiting the period during which we can make our share repurchases under the current program. The current program will expire if and when we have repurchased an
aggregate of $10.0 billion of shares pursuant to the program.
17
The following table sets forth information on the Company’s common stock repurchase program activity
...
Repurchased
(1)
Average
Price Paid
per Share
Total Number of
Shares Purchased as
...
$
9,662,728
(1)
Includes a nominal amount of shares repurchased from Associates to satisfy the exercise price and tax withholding of certain stock option exercises.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “11-Year Financial Summary” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2005. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION
The information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January
31, 2005. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” of the caption
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2005. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Auditors” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2005. Such information is included in an exhibit
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to Management in a timely fashion. An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
Wal-Mart’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”))(“Disclosure Controls”) was performed as of the end of the period covered by
this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, the
...
18
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and
the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended January 31, 2005 and are incorporated in this Item 9A by reference. Our Annual Report to Shareholders is included as an Exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal
quarter ended January 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and
certain beneficial owners of the Company’s Common Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions entitled “Nominees for Election to the Board of
Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
...
Age
Michael T. Duke
Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores Division. From July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President of Administration. From
March 2000 to July 2000, he served as Executive Vice President of Logistics. From July 1995 to March 2000, he served as Senior Vice President of Logistics. Prior to July 1995, he served as Senior Vice President of Distribution.
2003
55
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive Committee of the Board. Prior to January 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
2000
69
Charles M. Holley, Jr.
Senior Vice President and Controller. From March 1999 to January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart International. From October 1996 to
March 1999 he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart International.
2003
48
Thomas D. Hyde
...
51
19
John B. Menzer
Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart International. Prior to June 1999, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company.
1999
54
...
2000
52
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer. From January 1999 to January 2000, he served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From January 1998 to January 1999, he served
as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Wal-Mart Stores Division. Prior to January 1998, he served as Executive Vice President – Merchandising of the Company.
2000
56
...
2002
39
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board.
1992
60
Additional information
regarding our Board and Committee Governing Documents, our Audit Committee, our director nomination process, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other Associates required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption entitled “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee Report on
Executive Compensation,” “Summary Compensation,” “Option Grants In Last Fiscal Year,” “Long-Term Incentive Plan-Awards in Fiscal 2005,” “Termination of Employment Arrangements” and “Aggregated Option
Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year End Option Values” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Stock Ownership”, subcaptions
“Holdings of Major Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” included in our Proxy Statement. In addition, please refer to Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information relating to Equity
Compensation.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions” included in our Proxy Statement.
...
(a)
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements listed in the following table which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are
incorporated by reference herein or filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The financial statements can be located at Exhibit 13 filed herewith.
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2005
33
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2005 and 2004
34
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2005
35
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2005
36
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, except Note 12
37
Not Covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:
Note 12—Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
49
All schedules have been omitted
because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
4
(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James
E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
21
4(d)
...
Indenture dated as of December 11, 2002, between the Company and Bank One Trust Company, NA, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number
333-101847).
+ 10(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the fiscal year
ended January 31, 1986. This document is located in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s file no. 1-6991.
+ 10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1984 is incorporated herein by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 2-94358).
...
+ 10(e)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
+ 10(f)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 333-24259).
+ 10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective March 31, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) from the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+ 10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31,
...
1997 Amendment to the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal
year ended January 31, 1998.
+ 10(k)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 1998 as amended through January 15, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company
for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+ 10(l)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan of 1998 as amended and restated effective February 1, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
22
+*10(m)
...
Together with Summary of Material Differences From Form of Agreement Filed is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) from Amendment No. 1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed
August 26, 2004.
+*10(t)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004.
*12
Statement re computation of ratios.
*13
The Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2005. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form
10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005 is filed with the Commission. The balance of this information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the Commission in accordance with Item
601(13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Subsidiaries.
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE: March 31, 2005
By
/s/ David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman, Executive
Committee
of the Board and Director
DATE: March 31, 2005
[Total relevant lines: 757]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2005 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2006-03-29.html)
================================================================================
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
...
¨
No
x
As of July 31, 2005, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock
Exchange reported on July 31, 2005, was $
120,277,375,660. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common
stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
...
Document
Parts Into Which
Incorporated
Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2006 (Annual Report)
Parts I and II
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2006 (Proxy Statement)
Part III
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Form 10-K”). Portions of our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 2, 2006 (our “Proxy Statement”), are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Form 10-K. Those portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that we
have previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, incorporate by reference or may
incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are intended to enjoy the benefits of that act. The
forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information and announcements address activities, events or developments that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries
hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including the amount and nature of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and
clubs in the United States, opening of additional units in the other countries in which we operate, conversion of Discount Stores into Supercenters, anticipated levels of change in comparative store sales from one period to another period, expansion
and other development trends of retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations,
including the mix of products sold, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, our anticipated earnings per share for certain periods, and other similar matters. Although we believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking
statements included in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause our actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.
Our business operations are subject to factors outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors could materially affect
our financial performance, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include: the cost of goods, labor costs, the cost of fuel and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, insurance costs, competitive pressures, inflation,
accident-related costs, consumer buying patterns and debt levels, weather patterns, catastrophic events, transport of goods from foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in
tax and other laws and regulations that affect our business, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, unemployment levels, interest rate fluctuations, changes in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and
geo-political conditions. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Forward-looking statements
that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or
developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business or our operations in the way we expect. We
caution readers not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We assume no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable laws.
Our business operations, financial condition and results of operations are subject to certain risks. For further information, see
“Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.”
2
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(“Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) operates retail stores in various formats around the world. Wal-Mart is committed to growing by improving the standard of living for our customers throughout the world. We earn the trust of our
customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing
philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. During the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2006, we had net sales of $312.4 billion.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting
for 67.2% of our fiscal 2006 sales. This segment consists of three different traditional retail formats, all of which operate in the United States, and Wal-Mart’s online retail format, Walmart.com. Our traditional Wal-Mart Stores retail formats
include:
•
Supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
•
Discount Stores, which average approximately 102,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products; and
•
Neighborhood Markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise.
Our SAM’S CLUB segment consists of membership warehouse clubs, which operate in the United States, and the
segment’s online retail format, samsclub.com. SAM’S CLUB accounted for 12.7% of our fiscal 2006 sales. Our focus for SAM’S CLUB is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at “members only” prices for both
business and personal use. Our SAM’S CLUBs average approximately 129,000 square feet in size.
At January 31, 2006, our
International segment consisted of retail operations in nine countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 20.1% of our fiscal 2006 sales. The International segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including
Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs that operate outside the United States. Additionally, at January 31, 2006, we owned an unconsolidated minority interest of approximately 33.3% of Central American Retail Holding Company
(“CARHCO”), a retailer that operates more than 360 supermarkets and other stores in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. In February 2006, we acquired an additional 17.7% interest in CARHCO, to give us majority
ownership of CARHCO.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716.
The Development of Our Company
Although Wal-Mart was
incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in
Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a Discount Store, was opened. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three
SAM’S CLUBs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first Supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal
1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and
in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand, and at January 31, 2006, we had international operations in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom. We also operate through joint ventures in China, and at January 31, 2006, owned a minority interest in CARHCO.
3
At January 31, 2006, we operated 1,209 Discount Stores, 1,980 Supercenters, 567 SAM’S CLUBs and
100 Neighborhood Markets in the United States. Internationally, at January 31, 2006, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (295), Canada (278), Germany (88), Japan (398), Mexico (774), Puerto Rico (54), South Korea (16) and
the United Kingdom (315). We also operated 56 stores through joint ventures in China at January 31, 2006.
Our growth, measured both
by our net sales and net income, occurs in large measure as a result of our domestic and international expansion programs along with comparative store sales increases. For fiscal 2006 and prior years, we considered comparative store sales to be
sales at stores that were open as of February 1st of the prior fiscal year and which had not been expanded or relocated since that date. Comparative store sales are also referred to as “same-store” sales by others within the retail
industry. The method of calculating comparative store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparative store sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Beginning
in fiscal 2007, we changed our method of calculating comparative store sales. These changes are described in our Current Report on Form 8-K that we furnished to the SEC on February 2, 2006.
The following tables provide summary information concerning the additions of units and square footage for Discount Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood
Markets and SAM’S CLUBs in the United States, and international units in each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2006.
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT STORE COUNT
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2002 THROUGH 2006
STORE COUNT (1)
Wal-Mart
Discount Stores
Wal-Mart
...
1,980
Neighborhood
Markets
Total Wal-Mart Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Total
...
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions and relocations of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
4
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2002 THROUGH 2006
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (in thousands) (1)
Wal-Mart
...
370,711
Neighborhood
Markets
Total Wal-Mart Segment
Fiscal Year
Net Additions
Total
...
Includes the square footage of new Discount Stores opened, net of Discount Stores closed, converted or expanded into Supercenters or relocated into Supercenters.
(3)
Includes conversions and relocations of Discount Stores to Supercenters.
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT CLUB COUNT
AND NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2002 THROUGH 2006
CLUB COUNT (1)
...
(1)
Totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
5
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT UNIT COUNT
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2002 THROUGH 2006
STORE COUNT
(1)
Argentina
Brazil
...
272
6
278
China
Germany
Japan (3)
Fiscal Year
...
56
88
398
Mexico
Puerto Rico
Fiscal Year
Wal-Mart
...
315
2,285
(1)
Store counts and totals are as of January 31, of the years shown.
(2)
Includes 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004 and 139 units acquired from Sonae Distribuição Brasil S.A. in December
2005.
(3)
Excludes 45 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size.
(4)
At January 31, 2006, included 187 Bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 53 Suburbias (specialty department stores), 55 Superamas (traditional supermarkets), 286
Vips (restaurants) and 18 units of other formats compared to 162 Bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 50 Suburbias (specialty department stores), 48 Superamas (traditional supermarkets) and 269 Vips (restaurants) at January 31,
2005. Excludes Vips franchises for all years presented.
6
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT NET SQUARE FOOTAGE GROWTH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2002 THROUGH 2006
NET SQUARE FOOTAGE (in thousands) (1)
Argentina
...
23,225
1,777
31,730
China
Germany
Japan
Mexico
Fiscal Year
Net
Additions
...
Includes 7,581 square feet for the 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004 and 11,017 square feet for the 139 units acquired from
Sonae Distribuição Brasil S.A. in December 2005.
7
Much of our growth internationally in recent years has resulted from our acquisition of existing
operations in various countries. During May 2002, the Company acquired its initial 6.1% stake in The Seiyu, Ltd. (“Seiyu”), a Japanese retail chain. Through a series of transactions, our ownership percentage in Seiyu was increased to
approximately 37% at January 31, 2005. In December 2005, the Company purchased an additional interest in Seiyu, bringing our total ownership percentage in Seiyu to 53.3%, and began consolidating Seiyu as a majority-owned subsidiary.
During the past two fiscal years, we acquired two retailers in Brazil. In December 2005, we completed the purchase of Sonae Distribuição
Brasil S.A., a retail operation in Southern Brazil consisting of 139 hypermarkets, supermarkets and wholesale units. In February 2004, the Company completed its purchase of Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste
(“Bompreço”), a supermarket chain in Northern Brazil with 118 hypermarkets, supermarkets and mini-markets.
In September
2005, the Company acquired a 33.3% interest in CARHCO, a retailer with more than 360 supermarkets and other stores in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. In February 2006, we acquired an additional 17.7% of CARHCO making us
the majority shareholder of that entity. Following our acquisition of majority ownership, CARHCO’s name was changed to Wal-Mart Centro America.
We have provided additional information regarding the accounting treatment of the acquisitions discussed above in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in our Annual Report to Shareholders and
are incorporated by reference herein and have been included as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Our Industry Segments
Our retail operations serve our customers primarily through three segments. We identify those segments based on management responsibility within the
United States and in total for international units. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our Supercenters, Discount Stores and Neighborhood Markets in the United States as well as Walmart.com. The SAM’S CLUB segment includes the warehouse
membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea, the United Kingdom and, beginning in December 2005,
Japan. At January 31, 2006, our share of the results of our unconsolidated minority interest in CARHCO was not included in the International segment, but, following our February 2006 acquisition of an additional 17.7% of CARHCO, will be
included in the International segment. You will find information concerning the financial results of our operating segments and the total assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have incorporated by reference herein our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31, 2006, and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
Wal-Mart Stores Operating Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had net sales of $209.9 billion, $191.8 billion and $174.2 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single Supercenter,
Discount Store or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General.
We
operate Wal-Mart Discount Stores in all 50 states, Supercenters in 47 states and Neighborhood Markets in 15 states. Our Discount Stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 102,000
square feet. Supercenters range in size from 99,000 square feet to 261,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 187,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 38,000 square feet to 56,000 square feet, with an average size
of approximately 42,000 square feet. Customers can also access a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com.
Merchandise.
Wal-Mart Discount Stores and the general merchandise area of Supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware,
electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide
photo processing services. In addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise. The grocery assortment in our Supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry
grocery. Most of our Discount Stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery merchandise while a number of our larger Discount Stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. Neighborhood Markets are
generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods,
8
pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Wal-Mart Stores segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our
private-label store brands including “Sam’s Choice,” “Great Value,” “Everstart,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Puritan,” “Equate,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic
Works,” “Durabrand,” “ILO,” “HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Ozark Trail,” “Relion” and “Kid Connection.” The Company also markets lines of
merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “Faded Glory,” “General Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,” “Mary-Kate and Ashley,” “Metro 7” and “Starter.”
Sales in Discount Stores and Supercenters, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows during the fiscal
year ended:
...
2006
JANUARY 31,
2005
Grocery, candy and tobacco
30
%
28
...
%
9
%
Health and beauty aids
7
%
7
...
%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all Supercenters and an increasing number
of Discount Stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining Discount Stores and Neighborhood Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week. The retail stores in our
Wal-Mart Stores segment generally maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. Sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover while
minimizing expenses; however, we accept a variety of payment methods. In addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Wal-Mart Stores operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its
highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Our Discount Stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national chains. Our Supercenters compete with other
supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites.
Our ability to offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs
designed to meet the competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
Every day Low Prices (“EDLP”) – our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change
erratically under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to pass continually internal and external cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Store Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department performance; and
•
...
9
In addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our high
in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with an additional competitive advantage.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2006, approximately 81% of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped from 114
distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. Wal-Mart owns and operates 39 general merchandise distribution centers, 35 grocery distribution centers, seven apparel and shoes distribution
centers, 12 specialty distribution centers, three import distribution centers and one distribution center that supports Walmart.com. Additionally, third-party operators are used in 18 distribution centers of which two are grocery distribution
centers, five are specialty distribution centers and two are import distribution centers and eight support Walmart.com. One of our three owned import facilities is operated by a third-party. The specialty distribution centers ship merchandise such
as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry
grocery merchandise.
The 114 distribution centers are located throughout the continental United States. Fourteen distribution centers are
located in Texas; ten in Arkansas; nine in California; eight in Georgia; six in Indiana; five in Florida; four in each of New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania; three in each of Alabama, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina, Tennessee, Utah and
Virginia; two in each of Arizona, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Wisconsin; and one each in Colorado, Delaware, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon and
Washington.
In addition to servicing the Wal-Mart Stores segment, some of our Wal-Mart distribution centers also service our SAM’S
CLUB segment for perishable items, jewelry, tires and product returns.
SAM’S CLUB Operating Segment
The SAM’S CLUB segment had net sales of $39.8 billion, $37.1 billion and $34.5 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General.
We operate SAM’S CLUBs in 48 states. Facility sizes for SAM’S CLUBs generally range between 70,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average SAM’S CLUB facility being approximately 129,000 square feet.
SAM’S CLUB provides to its members a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com.
Merchandise.
SAM’S CLUB offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,”
“BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB” brands. Generally, each SAM’S CLUB also carries software, electronics, jewelry, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books. Most clubs have fresh departments, which
include bakery, meat, produce, floral and Sam’s Cafe. Additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
Sales in the SAM’S CLUB segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended:
CATEGORY
JANUARY 31,
2006
...
%
31
%
Food
30
%
31
...
%
100
%
Certain fiscal 2005 amounts in the preceding table have been reclassed to conform to current
period presentation.
Operations.
Operating hours for SAM’S CLUBs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30
p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key
10
program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
SAM’S CLUBs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs. Additionally, SAM’S CLUB issues Private
Label and Discover accounts that are without recourse to the Company. Members include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individuals who are not business owners can become “Advantage” members. The annual membership fee
for business members is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates for $35 each. The annual membership fee for an individual
“Advantage” member is $40 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. SAM’S CLUB PLUS is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. The annual membership fee for
a PLUS member is $100.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The SAM’S CLUB operating segment’s business is seasonal to
a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
SAM’S CLUBs compete with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and
general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. We compete with other retailers for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members largely determines our competitive
position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2006, approximately 66% of the SAM’S CLUB non-fuel
purchases were shipped from the SAM’S CLUB segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and some of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s grocery distribution centers for perishable items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the SAM’S CLUB
purchases directly to SAM’S CLUB locations. The principal focus of our SAM’S CLUB’s distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments
are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without extra storage. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. A combination of seven Company-owned and operated distribution
facilities, thirteen third-party owned and operated facilities, and two third-party owned and operated import distribution centers constitute the overall distribution structure for the SAM’S CLUB segment. To support the samsclub.com business,
SAM’S CLUB uses one third-party owned and operated distribution center in Texas. Two of the Company-owned and operated facilities are located in Texas with single facilities located in Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana and Minnesota. Of the
third-party owned and operated facilities, two are in California and one is in each of Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Washington. The third-party operated import
facilities are located in California and South Carolina. SAM’S CLUB uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common
carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
International Operating Segment
Our International segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Puerto Rico, South
Korea, and the United Kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in Japan and Mexico and our operations through joint ventures in China. Wal-Mart’s portion of the results of our unconsolidated 33.3% minority interest in the
CARHCO were included in the Company’s Other segment at January 31, 2006. We acquired a controlling interest in CARHCO in February 2006, and after that date CARHCO will be consolidated into our International segment. CARHCO has retail
operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
The International segment’s net sales for the fiscal years
ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, were $62.7 billion, $56.3 billion and $47.6 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company sales or net income.
General.
At January 31,
2006, our international operating formats varied by country and included:
•
Discount Stores in Canada and Puerto Rico;
•
Supercenters in Argentina, Brazil, China, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom;
•
SAM’S CLUBs in Brazil, Canada, China, Mexico, and Puerto Rico; and
•
Neighborhood Markets in China.
11
Some of the more significant other formats that we operated at January 31, 2006, included:
•
Todo Dia (combination discount and grocery stores), Balaio (discount food and general merchandise stores), Bompreço (supermarkets), Hipermercado BIG (hypermarkets),
Mercadorama (supermarkets), Nacional (supermarkets) and Maxxi Atacado (wholesale units) in Brazil;
•
Seiyu stores (supermarkets, discount and department stores), Livin stores (department stores) and Sunny (supermarkets) in Japan;
•
Superama (supermarkets), Bodega (combination discount and grocery stores), Suburbia (department stores) and Vips (restaurants) in Mexico;
•
ASDA stores (combination grocery and apparel stores), George stores (apparel stores) and ASDA Living stores (general merchandise stores) in the United Kingdom; and,
•
Amigo supermarkets in Puerto Rico.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International operating segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name
merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to
develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a
cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The International operating segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business
varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The International operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale sectors of the retail market
in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International operating
segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international units, our ability to operate effectively the food departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 85 distribution facilities that are located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China,
Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the International segment. During fiscal 2006, approximately 79% of the
International operating segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International operating segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. A
combination of Company-owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for the International operating segment. The International operating segment operates export consolidation
facilities in California, Florida, Pennsylvania and Texas in support of product flow to our Mexican, Canadian, Asian, and Latin American markets.
Employees
As of January 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately 1.8 million employees
(“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.3 million associates in the United States and approximately 500,000 associates in foreign countries. In the United States, the Company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our
associates, including a profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards, bonuses based on Company performance, discounted stock purchase program and life insurance. The Company also offers health care benefits to eligible full-time and
part-time associates. After the first year, the Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum for most expenses.
In our operations
outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com. Additional information can be found at www.walmartfacts.com. We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
12
Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our corporate website free of
charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. Our SEC filings, our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our
website at www.walmartstores.com/investors. These documents, as well as our SEC filings are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the
Investor Relations page of our website under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of twelve months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not
presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically
and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the
markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other
changes in tax laws, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Wal-Mart Stores segment and SAM’S CLUB segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower
average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and SAM’S CLUB segment. High levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise
adversely affect our operations and operating results in those countries.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United
States, including conversions of Discount Stores into Supercenters, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The
growth in the net sales and operating net income of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and our SAM’S CLUB segment depends to a substantial degree on our expansion programs. Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts
successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional Supercenters, Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets and
SAM’S CLUBs and to convert existing Discount Stores into Supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other
regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites, may affect our ability to open new stores and
clubs, to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our Discount Stores into
Supercenters. If we are unable to open new Supercenters, Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets or SAM’S CLUBs or continue to convert Discount Stores into Supercenters, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, if
consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our
business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we
have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as Supercenters or SAM’S Clubs, not
13
previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by
our International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing
buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing
units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate
those consumers will be. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in consummating the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we believe we will be
ultimately able to integrate successfully any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in
a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our International segment
and our future financial performance.
Failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely
affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our
ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and
distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are
located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if
our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong
competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail
business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the
United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, as
well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our SAM’S CLUB segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as
well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and
price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances.
Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods sold. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and
changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business.” above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which
could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.
14
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our
financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global
sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier
standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the
United States. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers,
the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our
control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing
certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic
conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We
currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rico, El Salvador, Germany, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China. During
fiscal 2006, our International operations generated 20.1% of our net sales. As a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in
future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political
conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations
may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past
suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal
policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have
historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater
difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be
exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
Natural disasters and geo-political events costs could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of
one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located and attacks disrupting transportation systems, could adversely
affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force
in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply or products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or
stores within a country in which we are operating and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores. These factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
We expect that the significant property damage experienced by the Company and others during last year’s hurricanes will result in substantial
increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. As a result the Company will likely face higher property insurance premiums, an increase in retained risk, or a
combination of the two, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
15
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operation.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other
litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action
allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female
employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we
have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. The U.S.
District Court hearing this case has issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the
caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and is included as an exhibit to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The number and location of United States and international Wal-Mart Discount Stores, Supercenters and SAM’S CLUBs and other formats are incorporated
by reference to the table under the caption “Fiscal 2006 End-of-Year Store Count” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2006, which information we have included as an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of January 31, 2006, in the United States, we owned 2,589 of the buildings in
which Discount Stores, Neighborhood Markets and Supercenters operated and 437 of the buildings in which our SAM’S CLUBs operated. Land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company. In the United States, we either
lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from a commercial property developer, lease them pursuant to sale/leaseback arrangements or lease them from a local governmental entity in connection with industrial revenue bond
financing arrangements. All store leases provide for fixed annual rentals and, in some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.
For details on our distribution centers, see
the caption “Distribution” provided for each of our segments under Item 1. Business.
We own the office facilities in
Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office. We lease an office facility in Brisbane, California that serves as the home office for Walmart.com
International.
We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment operates. As of
January 31, 2006, we owned nine properties in Argentina, 107 properties in Brazil, 96 properties in Canada, no properties in China, 19 properties in Germany, 86 properties in Japan, 16 properties in South Korea, 395 properties in Mexico, 10
properties in Puerto Rico and 202 properties in the United Kingdom in which operating units are located, with the remaining units in each country being leased on terms that vary from property to property. We utilize both owned and leased properties
for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations are supported by 85 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2006. Of these 85 distribution facilities, we owned 38 and leased 29. Third
parties owned and operated the remaining 18 distribution facilities.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I
.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
: We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Note 8 to our financial statements, which is
captioned “Litigation,” contained in the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference and are an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and refer you to that discussion for important
information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the
16
lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the
letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage and Hour “Off the Clock” Class Actions
:
Adcox v. WM
, US
Dist. Ct. (“USDC”), Southern Dist. of TX, 11/9/04;
Armijo v. WM
, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v. WM
, Marion County Superior Ct. IN, 8/17/00;
Barnett v. WM
, Superior Ct. of WA, King
...
NJ, Middlesex County, 5/30/02;
Jackson v. WM
, Superior Ct. of DE, New Castle County, 4/4/05;
Kuhlmann (In Re: Wal-Mart Employee Litigation) v. WM
, Circuit Ct., Milwaukee County, WI, 8/30/01;
Lerma v. WM
, Dist. Ct., Cleveland
...
EEOC (Smith) v. WM
, USDC, Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
: Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are
disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
The District Attorney for Solano County, California, has alleged that the Company’s
store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a limited amount of
damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the Company’s store in Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with
certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling
17
practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a limited amount of damaged product containing dry granular pesticide
on or about January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The EPA has alleged that the
Company and one of its construction contractors have violated the EPA’s stormwater regulations at a site in Caguas, Puerto Rico. The Administrative Complaint filed by the agency proposes an administrative penalty in the amount of $157,500. The
parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena
from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of
certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential
violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act, and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to
transport certain returned merchandise from the Company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from
the store certain materials as “hazardous waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for
subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations.
Additionally, the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California has initiated its own investigation regarding the Company’s handling of hazardous materials and hazardous waste and the Company has received administrative document requests
from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting documents and information with respect to two of the Company’s distribution facilities. Further, the Company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles County District
Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative interrogatories requesting information, among other things, regarding the Company’s handling of materials and hazardous waste. California state and local government authorities and the
State of Nevada have also initiated investigations into these matters. The Company is cooperating fully with the respective authorities.
The Company cannot estimate the possible loss or range of loss which may arise from this matter.
...
fiscal year ended January 31, 2006.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the “Number of Shareholders of Record” under the caption “11-Year
Financial Summary”, and all the information under the captions “Market Price of Common Stock,” “Listings—Stock Symbol: WMT” and “Dividends Per Common Share” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended January 31, 2006. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
From time to time, we
repurchase shares of our common stock under a $10.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in September 2004. Shares purchased under our share repurchase program are constructively retired and returned to unissued
status. There is no expiration date for or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make our share repurchases under the program which will expire if and when we have repurchased an aggregate of $10.0 billion of shares.
We did not purchase any shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program during the quarter ended January 31, 2006. At January 31,
2006, $6.1 billion of shares may be repurchased under our program. A nominal amount of shares were repurchased from employees during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to satisfy the exercise price and tax withholding of certain stock option
exercises.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “11-Year Financial Summary” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 31, 2006. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
18
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2006. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” of the caption
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2006. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,”
“Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent
Auditors” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2006. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are
designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also,
we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our
consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make
changes to our systems and processes to improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and
automating manual processes.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was
performed as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that
...
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on
internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting are
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended January 31, 2006, and are incorporated in this Item 9A by reference. Our Annual Report to Shareholders is included as an Exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
19
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 31,
...
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and
certain beneficial owners of the Company’s Common Stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions entitled “Nominees for Election to the Board of
Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT
...
Age
Eduardo Castro-Wright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division U.S. From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From December 2002 to February 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart de Mexico. From July 2001 to December 2002, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Wal-Mart
de Mexico. Prior to July 2001, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Honeywell Transportation and Power Systems since 2000.
2005
51
Michael T. Duke
Vice Chairman, Responsible for Wal-Mart International. From April 2003 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores
Division. From July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President, Administration.
2005
56
David D. Glass
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
2000
70
Charles M. Holley, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Finance. From January 2003 to December 2005 he served as Senior Vice President and Controller. From March 1999 to January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance
and Chief Financial Officer, Wal-Mart International.
2005
49
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From July 2001 to June
2003, he served as Executive Vice President, Senior General Counsel. Prior to July 2001, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Raytheon Company since 1992.
2005
57
...
20
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, SAM’S CLUB. From August 2002 to August 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Replenishment,
SAM’S CLUB. Prior to that Mr. McMillon served as Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager from October 1999 to August 2002.
2005
39
John B. Menzer
Vice Chairman, Responsible for U.S. From June 1999 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart International.
2005
55
Thomas M. Schoewe
...
2000
57
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
61
Additional information regarding our Board and Committee Governing Documents, our Audit Committee,
our director nomination process, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Corporate Governance” included in
our Proxy Statement. In addition, Item 1. Business, above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of this code on our website.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption entitled “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee Report on Executive Compensation,” “Summary Compensation,” “Option Grants In Last Fiscal
Year,” “Long-Term Incentive Plan-Awards in Fiscal 2006,” “Termination of Employment Arrangements” and “Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year End Option Values” included in our Proxy
Statement.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Stock Ownership”, subcaptions
“Holdings of Major Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” and under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Ratification of Independent Accountants” included in our Proxy Statement.
...
(a)
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to
the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
21
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2006
30
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2006 and 2005
31
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2006
32
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2006
33
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
34
...
48
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
49
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
50
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).
4(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James
E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4(d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement
...
Indenture dated as of July 19, 2005, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3
(File Number 333-126512)
+ 10(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the fiscal year
ended January 31, 1986 (which document may be found and reviewed in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, in the files therein relating to the Company, whose SEC file number is No.
1-6991).
+ 10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
+ 10(c)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective March 31, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) from the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+ 10(d)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997,
...
1997 Amendment to the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal
year ended January 31, 1998, filed on April 23, 1998.
+ 10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 1998 as amended through January 15, 2004 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company
for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+ 10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+ 10(i)
The Rules of the Asda Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended June 4, 2004, are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year
...
Together with Summary of Material Differences From Form of Agreement Filed is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) from Amendment No. 1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on
August 26, 2004.
+ 10(p)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
+10(q)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended January 1, 2005, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9,
2005.
+10(r)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated June 9, 2005.
+10(s)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(t)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(u)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Based Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated September 28, 2005.
+10(v)
Amendment to form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2005) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the
Company dated March 7, 2005.
+10(y)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise provided therein) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated March 7, 2005.
24
*12
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
*13
The Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2006. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form
10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006 is filed with the Commission. The balance of this information in the Annual Report to Shareholders is furnished to the Commission in accordance with Item 601(13)
of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and
Director
DATE: March 29, 2006
By
/s/ David D. Glass
David D. Glass
Chairman of the Executive
Committee
of the Board, and Director
DATE: March 29, 2006
[Total relevant lines: 838]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2006 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2007-03-27.html)
================================================================================
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
...
No
x
As of July 31, 2006, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2006, was $108,716,199,532. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its
directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 4,124,451,341 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 16, 2007.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2007 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 1, 2007 (“Proxy Statement”)
Part III
(1)
The registrant voluntarily withdrew its listing of shares of its common stock from NYSE Arca, Inc., effective December, 19, 2006, to eliminate duplicative administrative
...
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries hereinafter
referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) have previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously
made or may subsequently make include, may include, incorporate by reference or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be
included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, the
amount and nature of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States, opening of additional units in the other countries in which we operate, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, remodeling of or
special projects at existing units, anticipated levels of change in comparable store sales from one period to another period, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our
existing operations, our business strategy, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, our capital expenditures, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, our liquidity and ability to access the capital
markets, our anticipated earnings per share for certain periods, our expected comparable store sales for certain periods and other similar matters. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as
“anticipate,” “believe,” “could occur,” “could result,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “plan,” “will be,” and “will continue.” Although we believe
the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and those reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our
business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been
identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.
Our business operations are subject to factors outside our control. Any
one, or a combination, of these factors could materially affect our financial performance, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: the cost of goods, information security
costs, labor costs, the cost of fuel and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, insurance costs, the cost of construction materials, competitive pressures, inflation, accident-related costs, consumer buying patterns and debt levels, weather
patterns, catastrophic events, transport of goods from foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect our business,
the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, unemployment levels, interest rate fluctuations, changes in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events. Moreover, we typically earn a
disproportionate part of annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our performance is not
exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as other
factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all
of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that
those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business or our operations in the way we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as
of their dates. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
For further information regarding certain risks applicable to our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, see
“Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
2
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is
committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that
rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional
activity. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2007, we had net sales of $345.0 billion.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 65.6% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. This segment consists of three different traditional retail formats, all of which operate in the United States, and
Wal-Mart’s online retail format, walmart.com. Our traditional Wal-Mart Stores retail formats include:
•
Supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
•
Discount stores, which average approximately 107,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products;
and
•
Neighborhood Markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise.
Our Sam’s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs, which operate in the United States, and the
segment’s online retail format, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 12.1% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. Our focus for Sam’s Club is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at “members only” prices for both
business and personal use. Our Sam’s Clubs average approximately 132,000 square feet in size.
At January 31, 2007, our
International segment consisted of retail operations in 12 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 22.3% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. The International segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including
discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s Clubs that operate outside the United States.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W.
8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
3
The Development of Our Company
Although Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946,
his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount
store, opened. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with
Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has
continued to expand, and at January 31, 2007, we had international operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom. We also operate through
joint ventures in China.
At January 31, 2007, we operated 1,075 discount stores, 2,256 supercenters, 579 Sam’s Clubs and 112
Neighborhood Markets in the United States. Internationally, at the end of fiscal year 2007, the Company operated units in Argentina (13), Brazil (299), Canada (289), Costa Rica (137), El Salvador (63), Guatemala (132), Honduras (41), Japan (392),
Mexico (889), Nicaragua (40), Puerto Rico (54), and the United Kingdom (335). We also operated 73 stores through joint ventures in China at January 31, 2007. In October 2006, we disposed of our South Korean and German operations.
The following tables provide summary information regarding the numbers, additions and square footage of our discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood
Markets and Sam’s Clubs in the United States, and the numbers and square footage of our units in our international markets for each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2007.
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT
STORE COUNT
AND SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2003 THROUGH 2007
Wal-Mart
...
421,211
Neighborhood
Markets
Total Wal-Mart Stores Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Total
...
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters.
4
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2003 THROUGH
2007(1)
...
76,270
(1)
Amounts are as of January 31, of the years shown. Square footage is reported in thousands.
The number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs located in each state in the United States at January 31, 2007 is disclosed in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the
caption “Fiscal 2007 End-of-Year Store Count” and is incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
5
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE (1)
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2003 THROUGH 2007
Argentina
Brazil
...
23,789
289
33,591
China
Central America
Japan
(3)
...
7,128
392
28,780
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United Kingdom
Unit
...
335
26,800
Total
International Segment
Unit
Count
(4)
...
2,757
190,328
(1)
Unit counts are as of December 31, of the years shown for all countries except Canada and Puerto Rico, which are as of January 31. Square footage is reported in thousands.
(2)
Brazil includes 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004 and 139 units acquired from Sonae Distribuição Brasil S.A. in
December 2005.
(3)
Excludes 45 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size.
(4)
Further information regarding our international operating formats by market can be found under the caption “International Segment” below.
6
Our Industry Segments
Our retail operations serve our customers primarily through three segments. We identify those segments based on management responsibility within the United States and in total for international units. The Wal-Mart
Stores segment includes our supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets in the United States as well as walmart.com. The Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The
International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. You will find information concerning the financial
results of our operating segments in the United States and internationally and the total and long-lived assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have incorporated by reference herein our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31, 2007, and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Wal-Mart Stores Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment
had net sales of $226.3 billion, $209.9 billion and $191.8 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store or Neighborhood Market
location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales or net income.
General.
The Wal-Mart Stores segment operates
retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters in 47 states and Neighborhood Markets in 15 states. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of
approximately 107,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 98,000 square feet to 246,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 187,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 38,000 square feet to 55,000 square
feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. Customers also can access a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
Merchandise.
Wal-Mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes,
housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cellular phones and cellular service plan contracts, cameras and
supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. In addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise. The Wal-Mart Stores segment also offers financial services and
products, including money order sales, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. The grocery assortment in our supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry
grocery. Most of our discount stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery merchandise, while a number of our larger discount stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. Neighborhood Markets
are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet
supplies.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Wal-Mart Stores segment. We also market lines
of merchandise under our private-label store brands including “Sam’s Choice,” “Great Value,” “Everstart,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Puritan,” “Equate,” “No Boundaries,”
“George,” “Athletic Works,” “Durabrand,” “ILO,” “HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Metro 7,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Ozark Trail,” “Relion,” “White
Stag” and “Kid Connection.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “General Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,” “Mary-Kate and Ashley,”
and “Starter.”
7
...
2007
JANUARY 31,
2006
Grocery, candy and tobacco
31
%
30
...
%
8
%
Health and beauty aids
7
%
7
...
%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number
of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.
The retail stores in our Wal-Mart Stores segment generally maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards and a private-label store credit
card through a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Wal-Mart Stores segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the
holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Our discount stores compete with
other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug,
variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog business and with other retailers for new store sites.
Our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail
industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
Every day Low Prices (“EDLP”) – our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our
prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to pass continually internal and external cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Store Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department
performance; and
...
that store is located.
In addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides
one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with additional competitive advantages.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2007, approximately 80% of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s purchases of merchandise were
shipped from 121 distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. Wal-Mart owns and operates 40 general merchandise distribution centers, 38 grocery distribution centers, seven apparel and
8
shoes distribution centers, 12 professional services and specialty distribution centers, two import distribution centers and three distribution centers that
support walmart.com. Additionally, third-party operators are used in 19 distribution centers of which two are grocery distribution centers, five are specialty distribution centers, four are import distribution centers and eight support walmart.com.
The professional services distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract with
common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
The 121 distribution centers are located
throughout the continental United States. Fourteen distribution centers are located in Texas; eleven in Arkansas; nine in California; eight in Georgia; six in Indiana; five in each of Florida, Illinois, New York, and Pennsylvania; four in each of
Ohio and Virginia; three in each of Alabama, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Utah; two in each of Arizona, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Wisconsin; and one each in Colorado, Delaware, Iowa, Kansas,
Maryland, Maine, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington.
In addition to servicing the Wal-Mart
Stores segment, some of our Wal-Mart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for perishable items, jewelry, tires and product returns.
Sam’s Club Segment
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $41.6 billion, $39.8 billion and $37.1 billion for the
fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales or net income.
General.
We operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 72,000 and 190,000 square
feet, with the average Sam’s Club facility being approximately 132,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
...
.
Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size
grocery items, and selected private-label items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB” brands. Generally, each Sam’s Club also carries software, electronics, jewelry,
exercise equipment, outdoor goods, tires, office supplies and books. Most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and Sam’s Cafe. Additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing,
pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
Sales in the Sam’s Club segment, which are subject to seasonal variance,
by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended:
CATEGORY
JANUARY 31,
...
%
31
%
Food
29
%
30
...
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from
10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through
Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs,
including MasterCard beginning in fiscal 2007. Additionally, Sam’s Club markets private label and Discover accounts that are without recourse to the Company. Members include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individuals who
are not business owners can become Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for business
members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business account for $35 each. Businesses can also
purchase Advantage memberships for their employees under a Group Membership Program. Group rates are $30 per group Advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group Advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more
memberships. Sam's Club PLUS is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits
9
and services. The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business
associates (add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club
segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general
merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. We compete with other retailers for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business
members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2007,
approximately 65% of the Sam’s Club non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and some of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s distribution centers for perishable items, jewelry,
tires and product returns. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases directly to Sam’s Club locations. The principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored
inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without extra storage. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes
less than an hour. A combination of seven Company-owned and operated distribution facilities, 13 third-party owned and operated facilities, and two third-party owned and operated import distribution centers constitute the overall distribution
structure for the Sam’s Club segment. To support the samsclub.com business, Sam’s Club uses one third-party owned and operated distribution center in Texas. Two of the Company-owned and operated facilities are located in Texas with single
facilities located in Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana and Minnesota. Of the third-party owned and operated facilities, two are in California and one is in each of Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North
Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Washington. The third-party operated import facilities are located in California and South Carolina. Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport
non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
International Segment
Our International segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned
subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in Central America, Japan and Mexico and our operations through joint ventures in China.
The International segment’s net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, were $77.1
billion, $59.2 billion and $52.5 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales or net income.
General.
At January 31,
2007, our international operating formats varied by market and included:
•
Argentina - 13 supercenters
•
Brazil - 26 supercenters, 19 Sam’s Clubs, 66 hypermarkets (Hiper Bompreço, Big), 157 supermarkets (Bompreço, Mercadorama, Nacional), 11
cash-n-carry stores (Maxxi Alacado), 15 combination discount and grocery stores (Todo Dia), 3 general merchandise stores (Magazine) and 2 discount stores (Mini Bompreço)
•
Canada - 7 supercenters, 276 discount stores and 6 Sam’s Clubs
•
China - 68 supercenters, 2 Neighborhood Markets and 3 Sam’s Clubs
•
Costa Rica - 4 hypermarkets (Hiper Mas), 23 supermarkets (Más por Menos), 8 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega) and 102 discount stores (Pali)
•
El Salvador - 2 hypermarkets (Hiper Paiz), 32 supermarkets (La Despensa de Don Juan) and 29 discount stores (Despensa Familiar)
•
Guatemala - 6 hypermarkets (Hiper Paiz), 28 supermarkets (Paiz), 8 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega), 2 membership clubs (Club Co) and 88 discount stores (Despensa
Familiar)
•
Honduras - 1 hypermarket (Hiper Paiz), 6 supermarkets (Paiz), 5 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega) and 29 discount stores (Despensa Familiar)
•
Japan - 97 hypermarkets (Livin, Seiyu), 293 supermarkets (Seiyu, Sunny) and 2 general merchandise stores (Seiyu)
•
Mexico - 118 supercenters, 77 Sam’s Clubs, 100 supermarkets (Superama, Mi Bodega), 219 combination discount and grocery stores (Bodega), 61 department stores
(Suburbia), 312 restaurants and 2 discount stores (Mi Bodega Express)
•
Nicaragua - 5 supermarkets (La Unión) and 35 discount stores (Pali)
•
Puerto Rico - 6 supercenters, 8 discount stores, 9 Sam’s Clubs and 31 supermarkets (Amigo)
•
United Kingdom - 23 supercenters (Asda), 291 supermarkets (Asda), 7 general merchandise stores (Asda Living), 12 apparel stores (George) and 2 discount stores (Asda
Essentials)
10
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International segment is similar to that
of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve
customers in the different markets in which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by individual markets within
countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. While sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods
by the customer.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The International segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent.
Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the
supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local,
national and international restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our
international units, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 126 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the International segment. During fiscal 2007,
approximately 78% of the International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we
operate. A combination of Company-owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for the International segment. The International segment operates export consolidation facilities in
California, Florida and Texas in support of product flow to our Mexican, Asian, and Central and South American markets. Additionally, a Wal-Mart Stores segment distribution center in Pennsylvania exports products to our operations in Canada.
Employees
As of January 31,
2007, the Company employed approximately 1.9 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.36 million associates in the United States and approximately 550,000 associates in foreign countries. Like almost all
retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. In the United States, the Company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including a
profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards, bonuses based on Company performance, discounted stock purchase program and life insurance. The Company also offers health care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. After the
first year, the Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum for most expenses.
In our operations outside the United States, the
Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Our Website and Availability
of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com
. We file with or furnish to the
SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other
documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public
may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is
http://www.sec.gov
. Our SEC filings, our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement of Ethics can be found
11
on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
. These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print
to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com
under the
Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
Information regarding certain financial measures relating to our operating segments and the net sales from our operations in the United States and outside of the United States and our long-lived assets located in and outside the United
States are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included therein,
which information is incorporated herein by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below
could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not
presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically and
internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the
markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other
changes in tax laws, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Wal-Mart Stores segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower
average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and Sam’s Club segment. High levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise
adversely affect our operations and operating results in our International segment.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the
United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our
expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to
open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to
acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific
stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities
and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood
Markets or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we
expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
12
Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial
performance.
Our business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances
that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats
already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate
existing stores in a market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our
ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units
or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as
receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of
any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully
integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing
operations could adversely affect the growth of our International segment and our future financial performance.
Failure to attract and
retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand
our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions
that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of
qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are
unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in
other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment competes with retailers operating
discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as
well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate
department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including
merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a
Store and Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP
philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business.” above for
additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly
fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors
with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to
13
merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could
result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an
important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find
qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic
instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to
suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United
States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other
countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions
specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We currently conduct
operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China. During fiscal 2007, our International
operations generated 22.3% of our net sales. As a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years despite the recent
dispositions of our operations in Germany and South Korea. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our
control. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign
currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in
which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations
include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major
facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international
operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing
business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
Natural disasters and geo-political events costs could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which
we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks disrupting transportation and utility systems, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in
physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and
overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating and the reduction in the availability of products in our
stores. These factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
14
The significant property damage experienced by the Company and others resulting from the hurricanes in
fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the Company for named windstorms, such as
hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums. As a result the Company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms.
Named windstorm activity was minimal in fiscal 2007, and the Company did not incur any significant losses this past hurricane season.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided
adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have
brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and
wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of
discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. The U.S. district court hearing this case has issued an
order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, which we have appealed. Recently, a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the district
court’s ruling, and we are now asking that the ruling be reconsidered by a larger panel of that Court of Appeals. We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal
Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
If we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur
substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our
customers. In addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our
security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a
disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number and location of
United States and international Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s Clubs and other formats are incorporated by reference to the table under the caption “Fiscal 2007 End-of-Year Store Count” included in our Annual Report
to Shareholders, which information we have included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of
January 31, 2007, in the United States, we owned 2,819 of the buildings in which discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and supercenters operated and 457 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on which our stores are
located is either owned or leased by the Company. In the United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to sale/leaseback
15
arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for fixed annual
rentals and, in some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
We use independent contractors to construct our
buildings.
For details on our distribution centers, see the caption “Distribution” provided for each of our segments under
“Item 1. Business.”
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities
throughout the United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.
International.
We operate our
International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment operates. As of January 31, 2007, we owned 11 properties in Argentina, 117 properties in Brazil, 112
properties in Canada, 38 properties in Costa Rica, two properties in El Salvador, 13 properties in Guatemala, five properties in Honduras, 55 properties in Japan, 398 properties in Mexico, 13 properties in Nicaragua, 10 properties in Puerto Rico and
218 properties in the United Kingdom in which operating units are located, with the remaining units in each such country and the properties in which the operating units are located in China being leased on terms that vary from property to property.
We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations are supported by 126 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2007. Of these 126 distribution
facilities, we owned 37 and leased 36. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 53 distribution facilities.
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We
discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned “Litigation,” and refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings,
including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are an exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending and the
date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each lawsuit's name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage and Hour “Off the Clock” Class Actions:
Adcox v. WM
, US Dist. Ct. (“USDC”), Southern Dist. of TX, 11/9/04;
Alix (f/k/a Gamble) v. WM
...
12/7/01;
Armijo v. WM
, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v. WM
, Marion County Superior Ct. IN, 8/17/00;
Ballard v. WM
, Superior Ct. of CA, Los Angeles, County, 5/17/06;
...
, USDC,
Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain
environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
The District Attorney for Solano County, California, has
alleged that the Company’s store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly
disposed of a limited amount of damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the Company’s store in Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a limited amount of damaged product containing dry granular pesticide on or about
January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has
alleged that the Company and one of its construction contractors have violated the EPA’s stormwater regulations at a site in Caguas, Puerto Rico. The Administrative Complaint filed by the agency proposes an administrative penalty in the amount
of $157,500. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The Company is involved in discussions with the California Air
Resources Board (“CARB”) to resolve a Notice of Violation issued by CARB alleging that the Company sold portable fuel containers and spouts in California which were not compliant with California’s Portable Fuel Containers and Spouts
regulations. CARB alleges that in June 2006, the Company offered for sale various non-compliant 5-gallon portable fuel containers. The Company conducted its own research and discovered possible sales of additional items between 2002 and 2006 which
may not have been compliant with the regulations. The Company voluntarily reported this additional information to CARB. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The EPA recently approached a grocery industry group to resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling practices and to reduce the use of ozone-depleting refrigerants
in refrigeration equipment. The Company then approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types of refrigeration equipment. The parties are currently negotiating
toward a resolution of this matter.
17
On February 1, 2007, the Company received from the EPA a request pursuant to Section 114(a) of the Federal
Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding all non-essential products containing ozone-depleting substances including products such as Loony String which Wal-Mart may have sold or distributed since January 1, 2002. On March 8,
2007, the EPA issued a revised request for information in which it limited its request to string products including Loony String, Silly String and Fiesta String, and covering the period from 2004 to the present. Wal-Mart is in the process of
gathering the information requested.
In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”)
...
implementing mitigation measures and working with the USACE to resolve the matter.
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena
from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of
certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential
violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act, and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to
transport certain returned merchandise from the Company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from
the store certain materials as “hazardous waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for
subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss which may arise from this matter.
Additionally, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California has initiated its own investigation regarding the Company’s handling of
hazardous materials and hazardous waste and the Company has received administrative document requests from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting documents and information with respect to two of the Company’s
distribution facilities. Further, the Company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative interrogatories requesting information, among other things, regarding the
Company’s handling of materials and hazardous waste. California state and local government authorities and the State of Nevada have also initiated investigations into these matters. The Company is cooperating fully with the respective
authorities. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss which may arise from this matter.
ITEM 4.
...
Age
Eduardo Castro-Wright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From December 2002 to February 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart de Mexico. From July 2001 to December 2002, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of
Wal-Mart de Mexico.
2005
52
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
49
Lesile A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
52
Michael T. Duke
Vice Chairman, Responsible for International. From April 2003 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From
July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President, Administration.
2005
57
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From July 2001 to
June 2003, he served as Executive Vice President and Senior General Counsel.
2005
58
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club. From August 2002 to August 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Replenishment,
Sam’s Club. Prior to that Mr. McMillon served as Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager from October 1999 to August 2002.
2005
40
John B. Menzer
Vice Chairman, Responsible for U.S. From June 1999 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart International.
2005
56
Thomas M. Schoewe
...
2000
58
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
62
Steven P. Whaley
Senior Vice President and Controller. From December 2005 to January 2007, he served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December 2005, he served as Vice President and
Assistant Controller. Prior to September 2005, he served as Vice President and Controller at Southwest Airlines Co. since 2001.
2007
47
19
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions
“Eleven-Year Financial Summary”, “Market price of common stock,” “Listings—Stock Symbol: WMT” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an
exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At
March 16, 2007, the latest practicable date, there were 312,423 common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, we repurchase
shares of our common stock under a $10.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in September 2004. There is no expiration date for or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make our share repurchases
under the program, which will expire if and when we have repurchased an aggregate of $10.0 billion of shares under that program. Share repurchase activity for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total
Number of
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
per Share
Total
Number of
...
38,861,500
4.3
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Eleven-Year Financial Summary” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” of the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Auditors” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information
is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance
that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how
well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain
unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to
improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period
covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
...
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over
financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual
Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated in this Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2007, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the
Company’s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board—Proposal No. 1: Nominees for Election
to the Board” and “Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 1, 2007 (our “Proxy
Statement”).
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial expert, our director nomination process, and our Codes of Ethics
for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is
21
incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement. “Item
1. Business,” above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of this code on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Executive Compensation,” and under the subcaptions “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and
“Compensation Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the subcaptions “Holdings of Major
Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy
Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions” and under the caption “Information About the
Board—Director Independence” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
...
(a)
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2007
17
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2007 and 2006
18
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2007
19
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2007
20
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
21
...
41
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
42
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
44
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
4
(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E.
Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b)
to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4
(d)
...
(File Number 333-126512)
+10
(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the fiscal year ended
January 31, 1986 (which document may be found and reviewed in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, in the files therein relating to the Company, whose SEC file number is No.
1-6991).
+10
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
23
+10(c)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective March 31, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) from the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+10(d)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997,
filed on April 21, 1997.
+10(e)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+10(f)
The Rules of the Asda Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended June 4, 2004, are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended
...
with Summary of Material Differences From Form of Agreement Filed is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) from Amendment No. 1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on August
26, 2004.
+10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended January 1, 2005, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9,
2005.
+10(o)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated
June 9, 2005.
+10(p)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
24
+10(q)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(r)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Based Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated September 28, 2005.
+10(s)
Amendment to form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2005) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated March 7, 2006.
+10(v)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise provided therein) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated March 7, 2006.
*12
Statement re computation of ratios.
*13
Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2007. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(13) of
Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 27, 2007
By
/s/ Thomas M. Schoewe
...
Accounting Officer)
DATE: March 27, 2007
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 27, 2007
By
[Total relevant lines: 864]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2007 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2008-03-31.html)
================================================================================
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.
...
¨
No
x
As of July 31, 2007, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock
Exchange reported on July 31, 2007, was $108,832,733,376. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are
the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,954,458,057 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 21, 2008.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2008 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 6, 2008 (“Proxy Statement”)
Part III
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries hereinafter
referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart” or the “Company”) have previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously
made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as
amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or
incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information, and announcements address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, the amount,
nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of
existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our pricing
strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our
operations, including the mix of products sold, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our customers and our operations, our anticipated earnings per share for certain periods, our annual tax
rate, our anticipated levels of change in comparable store sales from one period to another period and other similar matters. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,”
“believe,” “could occur,” “could result,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “plan,” “projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will
change,” “will decrease” and “will increase.” Although we believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and such reports, statements, information and announcements
are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements,
whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.
Our business operations are subject to numerous factors outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors could materially affect our financial performance, business operations, business strategy,
plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, the cost of goods, consumer credit availability, information security costs, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel,
gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, our insurance costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, inflation,
accident-related costs, consumer buying patterns and debt levels, weather patterns, catastrophic events, transport of goods from foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of
or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect our business, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, unemployment levels, interest rate fluctuations, changes in employment legislation and other capital market,
economic and geo-political conditions and events. Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast
with certainty. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors, which we discuss below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully
in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and
listed above, as well as other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this
cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is
committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that
rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Our
fiscal year ends on January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, we had net sales of $374.5 billion.
Our
operations comprise three business segments: Wal-Mart Stores, Sam’s Club and International.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment is the
largest segment of our business, accounting for 64.0% of our fiscal 2008 net sales and operates stores in three different formats in the United States, as well as Wal-Mart’s online retail operations, walmart.com. Our Wal-Mart Stores retail
formats include:
•
Supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
•
Discount stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products;
and
•
Neighborhood Markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise.
Our Sam’s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and the segment’s online
retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.8% of our fiscal 2008 net sales. Our focus for Sam’s Club is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at “members only” prices for both business and
personal use. Our Sam’s Clubs average approximately 132,000 square feet in size.
At January 31, 2008, our International segment
consisted of retail operations in 12 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 24.2% of our fiscal 2008 net sales. The International segment includes numerous different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores,
supercenters and Sam’s Clubs that operate outside the United States.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street,
Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946,
his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount
store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with
Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has
continued to expand, and at January 31, 2008, we had international operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom. We also operate through
joint ventures in China and new planned operations through a joint venture in India in fiscal 2009.
3
At January 31, 2008, we operated 971 discount stores, 2,447 supercenters, 132 Neighborhood Markets
and 591 Sam’s Clubs in the United States. Internationally, at the end of fiscal year 2008, the Company operated units in Argentina (21), Brazil (313), Canada (305), Costa Rica (149), El Salvador (70), Guatemala (145), Honduras (47), Japan
(394), Mexico (1,023), Nicaragua (46), Puerto Rico (54), and the United Kingdom (352). We also operated 202 stores in China through a combination of joint ventures and minority-owned subsidiaries at January 31, 2008.
The following tables provide summary information regarding the numbers, additions and square footage of our discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood
Markets and Sam’s Clubs in the United States, and the numbers and square footage of our units in our international markets for each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2008.
WAL-MART STORES SEGMENT
STORE COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2004 THROUGH 2008
Wal-Mart
...
456,516
Wal-Mart
Neighborhood Markets
Total Wal-Mart Stores Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
(3)
Total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
4
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2004 THROUGH 2008
(1)
...
(1)
“Total” and “Square Footage” columns are as of January 31, of the years shown. Square footage is reported in thousands.
The number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs located in each state in the United States at January 31, 2008 is disclosed
in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2008 End-of-Year Store Count” and is incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
(5)
UNIT COUNT AND SQUARE
FOOTAGE
(1)
FISCAL YEARS ENDED
...
Brazil
(2)
Canada
China
(3)
Central America
Fiscal Year
...
7,822
Japan
(4)
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United Kingdom
Total
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
Brazil includes 118 units acquired from Bompreço S.A. Supermercados do Nordeste in February 2004 and 139 units acquired from Sonae Distribuição Brasil S.A. in
December 2005.
(3)
Includes units of Bounteous Company Ltd. (“BCL”). BCL operates 101 hypermarkets in 34 cities in China under the Trust-Mart banner.
(4)
Excludes 52 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size.
(5)
Further information regarding our international operating formats by market can be found under the caption “International Segment” below.
5
Our Business Segments
Our retail operations serve our customers through three segments. The Wal-Mart Stores segment includes our supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets in the United States as well as walmart.com. The
Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. You will find information concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We have incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31, 2008, and
for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders, portions of which
are included as an exhibit hereto.
Wal-Mart Stores Segment
The Wal-Mart Stores segment had net sales of $239.5 billion, $226.3 billion and $209.9 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single supercenter, discount store or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Wal-Mart Stores segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters in 48 states and Neighborhood Markets in 15 states. Our
discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 108,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 98,000 square feet to 246,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately
187,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 37,000 square feet to 56,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
Merchandise.
Wal-Mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of supercenters carry apparel
for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys,
pet food and pet accessories, cellular phones and cellular service plan contracts, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. In addition, our stores offer an assortment
of grocery merchandise. The grocery assortment in our supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery. Most of our discount stores carry a limited assortment
of dry grocery merchandise, while a number of our larger discount stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. Neighborhood Markets are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery,
meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies. The Wal-Mart Stores segment also offers financial services
and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a
significant portion of sales in the Wal-Mart Stores segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including “Sam’s Choice,” “Great Value,” “Everstart,” “Ol’ Roy,”
“Puritan,” “Equate,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic Works,” “Durabrand,” “HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Metro 7,” “Parent’s Choice,”
“Ozark Trail,” “ReliOn,” “White Stag,” “Sand N Sun,” “Canopy” and “Kid Connection.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “General
Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,” “Mary-Kate and Ashley,” “Better Homes & Gardens” and “Starter.”
6
Sales for the Wal-Mart Stores segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal
year ended:
CATEGORY
JANUARY 31,
2008
JANUARY 31,
2007
Grocery
41
%
39
%
Health & Beauty Aids
6
%
6
%
Health & Wellness
9
%
9
...
%
6
%
Entertainment, Electronics & Toys
14
%
14
...
%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number
of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.
We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card through a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers’
health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Wal-Mart Stores segment’s business is seasonal to a certain
extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of
which are national or regional chains. Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. We also
compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites.
Our ability to develop the
right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the
following:
•
Every Day Low Prices (“EDLP”) – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so
that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Store Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department
performance; and
...
that store is located.
In addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides
one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with additional competitive advantages.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2008, approximately 81% of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s purchases of merchandise were
shipped through distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. During fiscal 2008, the Company opened two general merchandise distribution centers and two grocery distribution centers and
closed two tire distribution centers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our Wal-Mart Stores segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2008, located strategically
throughout the continental United States. Of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 106.
7
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Wal-Mart Stores segment, some of our Wal-Mart
distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items.
Sam’s Club Segment
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $44.4 billion, $41.6 billion and $39.8 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average Sam’s Club facility being
approximately 132,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.samsclub.com
.
Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the
“MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB” brands. Generally, each Sam’s Club also carries software, electronics, jewelry, exercise equipment, outdoor goods, tires, office supplies and
books. Most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and Sam’s Cafe. Additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations.
Sales for the Sam’s Club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal year ended:
CATEGORY
JANUARY 31,
2008
...
%
36
%
Food
28
%
29
...
%
19
%
Service Businesses, including fuel
12
%
11
...
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from
10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through
Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs,
including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private label and co-branded Discover credit cards through a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers’
health benefit plans.
Members include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individuals who are not business owners can
become Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for business members is $35 for
the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business account for $35 each. Businesses can also purchase Advantage
memberships for their employees under a Group Membership Program. Group rates are $30 per group Advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group Advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. Sam’s
Club PLUS is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates
(add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club segment’s
business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general
merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. We compete with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of
small business members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
8
Distribution.
During fiscal 2008, approximately 65% of the Sam’s Club segment non-fuel
purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and some of the Wal-Mart Stores segment’s distribution centers for certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases
directly to Sam’s Club locations. Our Sam’s Club segment operations are supported by 24 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2008, located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 24 distribution
facilities, we owned and operated 7. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities.
The principal focus of our
Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments
typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour.
Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private
truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
International Segment
Our International segment is
comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Central America, Japan and Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our
minority-owned subsidiaries in China.
The International segment’s net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were $90.6 billion, $77.1 billion and $59.2 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
At
January 31, 2008, our international operating formats varied by market and included:
•
Argentina - 20 supercenters and 1 combination discount and grocery store (Changomas)
•
Brazil - 29 supercenters, 21 Sam’s Clubs, 70 hypermarkets (Hiper Bompreço, Big), 158 supermarkets (Bompreço, Mercadorama, Nacional), 13
cash-n-carry stores (Maxxi Alacado), 21 combination discount and grocery stores (Todo Dia) and 1 general merchandise store (Magazine)
•
Canada - 31 supercenters, 268 discount stores and 6 Sam’s Clubs
•
China - 96 supercenters, 2 Neighborhood Markets, 3 Sam’s Clubs and 101 hypermarkets (Trust-Mart)
•
Costa Rica - 6 hypermarkets (Hiper Mas), 23 supermarkets (Más por Menos), 9 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega) and 111 discount stores (Pali)
•
El Salvador - 2 hypermarkets (Hiper Paiz), 32 supermarkets (La Despensa de Don Juan) and 36 discount stores (Despensa Familiar)
•
Guatemala - 6 hypermarkets (Hiper Paiz), 28 supermarkets (Paiz), 12 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega), 2 membership clubs (Club Co) and 97 discount stores (Despensa
Familiar)
•
Honduras - 1 hypermarket (Hiper Paiz), 7 supermarkets (Paiz), 7 warehouse stores (Maxi Bodega) and 32 discount stores (Despensa Familiar)
•
Japan - 114 hypermarkets (Livin, Seiyu), 276 supermarkets (Seiyu, Sunny) and 4 general merchandise stores (Seiyu)
•
Mexico - 136 supercenters, 83 Sam’s Clubs, 129 supermarkets (Superama, Mi Bodega), 246 combination discount and grocery stores (Bodega), 76 department stores
(Suburbia), 349 restaurants and 4 discount stores (Mi Bodega Express)
•
Nicaragua - 6 supermarkets (La Unión) and 40 discount stores (Pali)
•
Puerto Rico - 6 supercenters, 8 discount stores, 9 Sam’s Clubs and 31 supermarkets (Amigo)
•
United Kingdom - 29 supercenters (Asda), 298 supermarkets (Asda, Asda Small Town), 13 general merchandise stores (Asda Living) and 12 apparel stores (George). We
plan to close the George stores in fiscal 2009.
In August 2007, the Company announced an agreement between Wal-Mart and
Bharti Enterprises, an Indian company, to establish a joint venture called Bharti Wal-Mart Private Limited to conduct wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations in India, in compliance with Government of India
guidelines. The first wholesale facility is targeted to open in late fiscal 2009. The joint venture was formed to establish wholesale warehouse facilities to serve retailers and business owners by selling them merchandise at wholesale prices,
including Bharti Retail, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharti Enterprises, that is developing a chain of retail stores in India. In addition, Bharti Retail has entered into a franchise agreement with an Indian subsidiary of Wal-Mart under which it
will provide technical support to its retail business.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International segment
is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for
9
a majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by individual markets within
countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards through third-party providers. Other consumer
finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Across the International segment, we are
leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global procurement practices. In addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The International segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of
sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount,
department, drug, variety, specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international
restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international units, our ability to
effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 143 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and two
export consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the International segment. During fiscal 2008, approximately 70% of the
International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 143
distribution facilities, we owned 38 and leased 68. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 37 distribution facilities.
Employees.
As of January 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.42 million associates in the United
States and approximately 635,000 associates internationally. Like almost all retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. In the United States,
the Company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the Wal-Mart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of
purchases in the Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
In our operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local
practices and statutory requirements.
Our Web site and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate Web site is located at
www.walmartstores.com
. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available
to investors on or through our corporate Web site free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that Web site is
http://www.sec.gov
. Our SEC filings, our Senior Financial Officer
Code of Ethics and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
. These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a
copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive
amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our Web site at
www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate Governance section. Any such
description will be located on our Web site for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
10
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders
under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below
could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all
companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States,
higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws,
overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Wal-Mart Stores segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower
average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our Wal-Mart Stores segment and Sam’s Club segment. These factors affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from whom we purchase goods,
a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the
other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United States. These conditions may adversely affect our
gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our International segment.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability
to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters
depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we
operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to
convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount
stores into supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating
income growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be
adversely affected.
11
Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial
performance.
Our business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances
that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats
already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate
existing stores in a market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our
ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units
or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as
receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International segment, our financial
performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and
may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that
future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively
future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our International segment and our future financial performance.
Failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs,
including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external
factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other
insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and
services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Wal-Mart Stores segment competes with retailers
operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club
operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who
operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways,
including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store
Within a Store and Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is
highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in
competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the
provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
12
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those
products could adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified
as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located
and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems
experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the
countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation
of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely
affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of food and
non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern
is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect
our financial performance.
Our International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting,
regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and
the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China. During fiscal 2008, our International operations generated 24.2% of our net sales. As a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our
International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years despite the recent dispositions of our operations in Germany and South Korea. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or
regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory
constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash
flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency
devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other
countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States.
Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in
countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous
sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely
affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and
geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks disrupting transportation and utility systems, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our
operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or
long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are
operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption in our communications with our stores. These factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
The significant property damage experienced by the Company and others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases
in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the Company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more
limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to us. As a result the Company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms.
13
Named windstorm activity was minimal in fiscal 2008, and the Company did not incur any significant losses
this past hurricane season.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other
litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing
class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and
present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case
allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.
On June 4, 2004, the U.S. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel
of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the district court’s ruling. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the Court of Appeals. On
November 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the Company’s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. On January 8, 2008, the Company filed
a new Petition for Rehearing En Banc. We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are
part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
If we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs
and become subject to litigation.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our
online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in
customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in
litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations,
particularly our online sales operations.
We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage
our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.
Although we
have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical computer
systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and
hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our
operations in the interim. Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our
information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are
undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize that cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
14
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect
our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict
consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely
identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number and location of
United States and international Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s Clubs and other formats are incorporated by reference to the table under the caption “Fiscal 2008 End-of-Year Store Count” included in our Annual Report
to Shareholders, which information we have included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of
January 31, 2008, in the United States, we owned 2,967 of the buildings in which discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and supercenters operated and 471 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on which our stores are
located is either owned or leased by the Company. In the United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from
local governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In some cases, the leases provide for additional rent
based on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company’s store leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.
Our 121 Wal-Mart Stores and 24 Sam’s Club
distribution centers are located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 145 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 32 distribution facilities.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption “Distribution” provided for each of our segments under “Item 1.
Business.”
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the
United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.
International.
We operate our International segment
stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment operates. As of January 31, 2008, we owned 19 properties in Argentina, 132 properties in Brazil, 116 properties in Canada,
49 properties in Costa Rica, 5 properties in El Salvador, 13 properties in Guatemala, 8 properties in Honduras, 55 properties in Japan, 467 properties in Mexico, 17 properties in Nicaragua, 10 properties in Puerto Rico and 227 properties in the
United Kingdom in which operating units are located, with the remaining units in each such country and the properties in which the operating units are located in China being leased on terms that vary from property to property. We utilize both owned
and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations are supported by 143 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2008. Of these 143 distribution facilities, we owned 38
and leased 68. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 37 distribution facilities.
15
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We
discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned “Legal Proceedings,” and refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings,
including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are an exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending and the
date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage and Hour “Off the Clock” Class Actions:
Adcox v. WM
, US Dist. Ct. (“USDC”), Southern Dist. of TX, 11/9/04;
Alix (f/k/a Gamble) v. WM
, Supreme Ct. of the State of NY, County of Albany, 12/7/01;
Armijo v. WM
, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct., Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00;
Bailey v. WM
, Marion County Superior Ct. IN, 8/17/00;
Barnett v. WM
, Superior Ct. of WA, King County, 9/10/01;
...
, USDC, Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.
16
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental
matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
The District Attorney for Solano County, California, has alleged that
the Company’s store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of
a limited amount of damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the Company’s store in Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a limited amount of damaged product containing dry granular pesticide on or about
January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) approached a grocery industry group to resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling practices and to reduce the use of ozone-depleting refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The Company then approached the EPA independently to
address these issues, and proposed a plan for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types of refrigeration equipment. The parties are currently negotiating a resolution of this matter.
On February 1, 2007, the Company received from the EPA a request pursuant to Section 114(a) of the Federal Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding
all non-essential products containing ozone-depleting substances including products such as Loony String which the Company may have sold or distributed since January 1, 2002. On March 8, 2007, the EPA issued a revised request for
information in which it limited its request to string products including Loony String, Silly String and Fiesta String, and covering the period from 2004 to the present. The Company submitted an initial response to the EPA on May 8, 2007, and is
continuing to gather the requested information. The Company is cooperating fully with the EPA regarding this matter.
In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto
...
construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico. On January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to these issues in writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico
regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto Rico filed a formal response and is currently implementing mitigation measures and working with the USACE to resolve the matter.
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the
Company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act, and the Hazardous Materials Transportation
Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the Company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may
be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste
carrier. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. While management
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
Additionally, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California has initiated its own investigation regarding the Company’s handling of
hazardous materials and hazardous waste and the Company has received administrative document requests from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting documents and information with respect to two of the Company’s
distribution facilities. Further, the Company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative interrogatories requesting information, among other things, regarding the
Company’s handling of materials and hazardous waste. California state and local government authorities and the State of Nevada have also initiated investigations into these matters. The Company is cooperating fully with the respective
authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (“Department”) alleging certain violations of
Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations. The allegations were the result of an inspection by the Department of a third party contractor’s facility located in Missouri. The Company contracted with the third party to recycle agricultural
products and materials. The Department alleges that the Company provided certain items to the third party contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter,
management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
17
ITEM 4.
...
Age
Eduardo Castro-Wright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer,
Wal-Mart Stores Division. From December 2002 to February 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart de Mexico.
2005
53
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
50
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
53
Michael T. Duke
Vice Chairman, International Division. From April 2003 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division. From July 2000
to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President, Administration.
2005
58
Rollin L. Ford
Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.
2006
45
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From July 2001 to June
2003, he served as Executive Vice President and Senior General Counsel.
2005
59
...
2000
59
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
63
Steven P. Whaley
Senior Vice President and Controller. From December 2005 to January 2007, he served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December 2005, he served as Vice President and
Assistant Controller. Prior to September 2005, he served as Vice President and Controller at Southwest Airlines Co. since 2001.
2007
48
18
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions
“Eleven-Year Financial Summary,” “Market price of common stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Our common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 21, 2008, the
latest practicable date, there were 303,823 common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, we repurchased shares of our common
stock under a $10.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in September 2004. On May 31, 2007, the Board of Directors replaced the $10.0 billion share repurchase program, which had $3.3 billion of remaining
authorization for share repurchases, with a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program announced on June 1, 2007. Under the new share repurchase program, there is no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can
make our share repurchases under the new program, which will expire only when and if we have repurchased $15.0 billion of our shares under the program. Under these programs, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued
status. We consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our capacity for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock.
Share repurchase activity for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total
Number of
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
per Share
Total
Number of
...
$
8.5
(1)
Purchased pursuant to the $15.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors on May 31, 2007 and publicly announced on June 1, 2007. The 2007
share repurchase program does not have any expiration date.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Eleven-Year Financial Summary” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
19
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” of the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” included in the Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” included in the Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
...
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance
that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how
well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain
unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to
improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period
covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
...
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over
financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual Report to
Shareholders, and are incorporated in this Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2008, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the
Company’s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board” and “Stock Ownership—Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 6, 2008 (our “Proxy Statement”).
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive
Officers of the Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial expert, our director nomination process, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to all information under the caption entitled “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement. “Item 1. Business,” above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of this code on our
Web site.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Information about the Board – Compensation of Directors” and under the subcaptions
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the subcaptions “Holdings of Major
Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy
Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions” and under the caption “Information About the
Board—Director Independence” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
...
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements listed
in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
Annual
Report to
Shareholders(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2008
20
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2008 and 2007
21
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2008
22
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2008
23
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
24
...
46
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
47
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
48
All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
22
4(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and
James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4(d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form
...
Indenture dated as of July 19, 2005, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3
(File Number 333-126512).
+10(a)
Form of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company, as amended, for the fiscal year ended
January 31, 1986 (which document may be found and reviewed in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, in the files therein relating to the Company, whose SEC file number is No.
1-6991).
+10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1994 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-55325).
+10(c)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective March 31, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) from the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+10(d)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997,
filed on April 21, 1997.
+10(e)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
+10(f)
The Rules of the Asda Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended June 4, 2004, are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended
...
with Summary of Material Differences From Form of Agreement Filed is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) from Amendment No. 1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on August
26, 2004.
+10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended January 1, 2005, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(o)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated
June 9, 2005.
+10(p)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(q)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(r)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Based Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated September 28, 2005.
+10(s)
Amendment to form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2005) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated March 7, 2006.
+10(v)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise provided therein) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated March 7, 2006.
+10(w)
Separation Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and John B. Menzer, dated January 21, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
...
Statement re computation of ratios.
24
*13
Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2008. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 31, 2008
By
/s/ Thomas M. Schoewe
...
(Principal Accounting Officer)
DATE: March 31, 2008
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 31, 2008
By
[Total relevant lines: 891]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2008 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2009-04-01.html)
================================================================================
¨
Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
...
As of
July 31, 2008, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the
registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale
price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31,
2008, was $130,849,375,750. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the
registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial
owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the
...
Parts
Into Which Incorporated
Portions
of Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended
January 31, 2009 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an
exhibit to this Form 10-K
Parts
I and II
Portions
of Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
June 5, 2009 (“Proxy Statement”)
Part
III
...
or the “Company”) has previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have
previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may
incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the
protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that
...
those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future
economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or
anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not
limited to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including
our expected sales or earnings per share for certain periods and our comparable
stores sales from one period to another period, the amount, nature and
allocation of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and
clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which
we operate, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of
existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion
and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate
newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy,
our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated
success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our
market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business,
changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in
expected sales of certain categories of products, our liquidity and ability to
access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our
customers, our operations and our results of operations, our annual tax
rate,  and other similar matters. Forward-looking statements are often
identified by the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,”
“could occur,” “could result,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,”
“plan,” “projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will change,”  “will
decrease,” “will have,” “will increase” and “will remain.”  Although we
believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in
this Form 10-K and such reports, statements, information and announcements are
based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our
...
factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or
on our behalf.
Our
business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties,
domestically and internationally, that are outside our control.  Any
one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could
materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations,
including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales for any
period, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives.
These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions,
including the current economic crisis and disruption in the financial markets,
unemployment levels, consumer credit availability, levels of consumer disposable
income, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, the cost of the
goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel,
gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident
costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the
cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for
new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related
costs, weather patterns, catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our
stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability
and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange
fluctuations and volatility, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight
rates, adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect
our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the outcome of
legal proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, changes
in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and geo-political
conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist
attacks.  Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our
annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying
patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The
foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial
performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could
adversely affect our business operations and financial
performance.  Our business operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors, which we
discuss below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  Readers are
urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully
in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we
make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our
business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors
described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other
factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or
other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary
...
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in
various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they
can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a
broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices
(“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect,
integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price
items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will
not change under frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on
January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, we had net
sales of $401.2 billion.
Our
operations comprise three business segments: Walmart U.S., International and
Sam’s Club.
Our
Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for
63.7% of our fiscal 2009 net sales and operates stores in three different
formats in the United States, as well as Wal-Mart’s online retail operations,
walmart.com. Our Walmart U.S. retail formats include:
•
Discount
stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer
a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food
products;
•
Supercenters,
which average approximately 186,000 square feet in size and offer a wide
assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
and
•
Neighborhood
...
a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general
merchandise.
At
January 31, 2009, our International segment consisted of retail operations
in 14 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 24.6% of our fiscal 2009
net sales. The International segment includes numerous different formats of
retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s
Clubs that operate outside the United States.
Our Sam’s
Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and the
segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.7%
of our fiscal 2009 net sales. Our Sam’s Clubs average approximately 133,000
square feet in size.
We
maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716, USA.
The
Development of Our Company
...
Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted
by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin
variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton,
opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’
business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year,
the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers,
Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal
1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first
Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal
1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint
venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de
C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra,
and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico,
S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to
expand. At January 31, 2009, our International segment was comprised of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto
Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five
countries in Central America, and in Chile and Mexico, our joint ventures in
India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.
At
January 31, 2009, we operated 891 discount stores, 2,612 supercenters, 153
Neighborhood Markets and 602 Sam’s Clubs in the United States. At the end of
fiscal year 2009, our International segment operated units in Argentina (28),
Brazil (345), Canada (318), Chile (197), Costa Rica (164), El Salvador (77),
Guatemala (160), Honduras (50), Japan (371), Mexico (1,197), Nicaragua (51),
Puerto Rico (56) and the United Kingdom (358). We also operated 243 stores in
China through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries
at January 31, 2009. At January 31, 2009, our Indian business consisted of
wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations through
our joint venture with Bharti Enterprises and technical support to the retail
stores of Bharti Retail through a franchise agreement.
3
Our
Business Segments
Our
retail operations serve our customers through three segments. The Walmart U.S.
segment includes our discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in
the United States as well as walmart.com. The Sam’s Club segment includes the
warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The
International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada,
Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. You will find information
concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived
assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations. We have incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31,
2009, and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders,
portions of which are included as an exhibit hereto.
Walmart
U.S. Segment
The
Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $255.7 billion, $239.5 billion and $226.3
billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store,
supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total
Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates
retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters
in 48 states and Neighborhood Markets in 16 states. Our discount stores range in
size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of
approximately 108,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 94,000 square
feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 186,000
square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 36,000 square feet to
62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet.
From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market
demands and needs.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of
merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
WALMART
U.S. SEGMENT
STORE
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
...
Neighborhood
Markets
Walmart
U.S. Segment
Square
Square
Fiscal
...
to supercenters.
4
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below,
across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and
Neighborhood Markets.
·
Grocery
consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli,
bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery as well as consumables
such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet
supplies.
·
Entertainment
contains electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services,
cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and
toys.
·
Hardlines
consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive
accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting
goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal
merchandise.
·
Apparel
includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and
jewelry.
·
Health
and wellness includes pharmacy and optical
services.
·
...
includes home furnishings, housewares and small
appliances.
The
Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including
money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.
Nationally
advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart
U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store
brands including “Great Value,” “Equate,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Sam’s Choice,” “Spring
Valley,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “No Boundaries,”
“George,” “Athletic Works,” “Secret Treasures,” “Puritan,” “Durabrand,”
“HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Ozark Trail,” “White Stag” and “Canopy.” The Company
also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include
“General Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,”  “Better Homes &
Gardens,” “OP,” “Starter,” “Danskin Now” and “Just My Size.”
Sales for
the Walmart U.S. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:
January 31,
STRATEGIC
MERCHANDISE UNITS
2009
2008
Grocery
49
%
47
%
Entertainment
13
14
Hardlines
...
Apparel
11
12
Health &
Wellness
10
9
...
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of
discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of
operation for the remaining discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood
Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m.,
seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit
cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party
provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for
products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to
a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and
specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional
chains. Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts,
discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new
store sites.
Our
ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our
customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail
industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within
our industry. These programs include the following:
•
EDLP
– our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under
which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional
activity;
•
Rollbacks
– our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by
lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Store
Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant and
...
business; and
•
Save
Even More  – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s
advertised price on key value
items.
In
addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that
...
customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that
allow customers to shop at their convenience, provide us with additional
competitive advantages.
Distribution.
During
fiscal 2009, approximately 81% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of
merchandise were shipped to the segment’s stores through our distribution
centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores
from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through
our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport
the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our
Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as
of January 31, 2009, located strategically throughout the continental United
States.  Of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated
106. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution
facilities.  During fiscal 2009, the Company opened one food import
distribution center and closed one walmart.com distribution
center.  In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of
our Wal-Mart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for
certain items.
6
International
Segment
The
International segment’s net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal
years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were $98.6 billion, $90.4
billion and $76.9 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Our International
segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina,
Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned
subsidiaries operating in five countries in Central America, and in Chile and
Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled
subsidiaries in China.
INTERNATIONAL
SEGMENT
UNIT
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
...
Canada
America
Chile
China
(3)
Unit
Square
...
43,165
Japan
(4)
Mexico
Puerto
Rico
United
Kingdom
Total
International
Unit
Square
Unit
...
(3)
Includes
units of Bounteous Company Ltd. (“BCL”). BCL operates 103 hypermarkets in
34 cities in China under the Trust-Mart
banner.
(4)
Excludes
...
square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu stores, which have closed or
will close in fiscal 2010.
7
International
unit counts and operating formats as of January 31, 2009:
Country
Supermarkets
Discount
...
75
-
197
China
-
-
132
...
106
1
371
Mexico
(3)
163
67
...
(1)
“Other”
format includes 22 Sam’s Clubs, 23 cash-n-carry stores, 39 combination
discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise
store.
(2)
“Other”
...
2010.
(3)
“Other”
format includes 91 Sam’s Clubs, 279 combination discount and grocery
stores, 83 department stores and 360
restaurants.
During
fiscal 2009, the Company disposed of Gazeley Limited (“Gazeley”), an ASDA
commercial property development subsidiary in the United Kingdom. Consequently,
the results of operations associated with Gazeley and the gain on disposal are
presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income
and Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows
related to this operation were insignificant for all periods
presented.
During
the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a restructuring program
under which the Company’s Japanese subsidiary, The Seiyu Ltd., will close 23
stores and dispose of certain excess properties. This restructuring will involve
incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment
charges and employee separation benefits, although any additional costs are not
expected to be material. The costs associated with this restructuring and
the results of operations of the affected stores and properties are presented as
discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income and
Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows and
accrued liabilities related to this restructuring were insignificant for all
periods presented.
In January 2009, the Company completed
a tender offer for the shares of Distribución y Servicio D&S S.A.
(“D&S”), acquiring approximately 58.2% of the outstanding D&S shares
(the "First Offer").  D&S has 197 stores, 10 shopping centers and 85
PRESTO financial services branches throughout Chile. The purchase price for the
D&S shares in the First Offer
was approximately $1.55 billion.
As of January 31, 2009, assets recorded in the acquisition after the First
Offer, were approximately $3.6 billion, including approximately $1.0 billion in
goodwill, liabilities assumed were approximately $1.7 billion and minority
interest was approximately $395 million.  Under the
Chilean securities laws, the Company
was required after the First Offer to initiate a second tender offer (the
"Second Offer") for the remaining outstanding shares of D&S on the same
terms as the First Offer. The Company completed the Second Offer in March 2009,
acquiring approximately 16.4% of the outstanding D&S shares for
approximately $430 million, resulting in the Company owning approximately 74.6%
of the D&S shares. In connection with the transaction, the former D&S
controlling shareholders were each granted a put option that is exercisable
beginning in January 2011 through January 2016. During the exercise period, the
put option allows each former controlling shareholder the right to require the
Company to purchase up to all of their shares of D&S (approximately 25.1%)
owned following the Second Offer
at fair market value at the time of an
exercise, if any.  The consolidated financial statements of D&S, as
well as the allocation of the purchase price as of January 31, 2009, are
preliminary.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International segment is similar to that of
our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of
merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a
majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the United States have
been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop
relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of
quality merchandise.
8
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by
country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and
national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment
methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards
issued by third-party providers. Other consumer finance programs exist in
certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the
customer.
Across
the International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from
multiple store formats and global procurement practices. In addition,
relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes
across countries.
Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.
The International segment’s business is seasonal
to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to
different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as
different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and
international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety
and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in
which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international
restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality
merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment
determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international
units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major
impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we
operate.
Distribution.
We
utilize a total of 146 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and two export
consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we
process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating
units of the International segment. During fiscal 2009, approximately 74% of the
International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities.
Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to
our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 146
distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 34.
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 78 distribution
facilities.
Sam’s
Club Segment
The Sam’s
Club segment had net sales of $46.9 billion, $44.4 billion and $41.6 billion for
the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as
much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility
sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet,
with the average Sam’s Club facility being approximately 133,000 square feet.
Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and
...
www.samsclub.com
.
SAM’S
CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
FISCAL
...
9
Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods,
some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label
items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB”
brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club
format.
·
Sundries,
including snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
paper goods, laundry and home care and other
consumables.
·
Food, including
dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled and frozen
packaged foods.
·
Hardgoods,
including home improvement, electronics, office supplies, outdoor living,
...
including apparel, jewelry, housewares, mattresses and small
appliances.
Sales for
the Sam’s Club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:
January 31,
CATEGORY
...
%
36
%
Food
30
29
Hardgoods
16
18
Service
Businesses, including fuel
12
12
Softgoods
...
business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through
Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s
Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted
at our clubs, including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private
label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In
addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and
services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Members
include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individual
consumers are referred to as Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an
individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee
for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business
members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business
account for $35 each. Businesses can also purchase Advantage memberships for
their employees under a Group Membership Program. Group rates are $30 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. Sam’s Club PLUS
is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services.
The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In
addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates
(add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each.
Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount
retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and
distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club
competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.
Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of
small business members largely determines our competitive position in the
warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2009, approximately 65% of the Sam’s Club segment non-fuel
purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution
facilities and some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers for
certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases
directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2009, our Sam’s Club
segment operations were supported by 26 distribution facilities located
strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 26 distribution
facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 18 distribution facilities.
The
principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking
merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution
process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound
trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility,
sometimes less than an hour.
Sam’s
Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to
transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We
contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from
distribution centers to clubs.
10
Employees
As of
January 31, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries employed over
2.1 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately
1.4 million associates in the United States and approximately 694,000
associates internationally. Like almost all retailers, the Company has a large
number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant
turnover in employees each year. In the United States, the Company offers a
broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the Wal-Mart
Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships,
bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the
Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life insurance. The Company also offers
health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The
Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most
expenses.
In our
operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of
associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory
requirements.
Our
Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our
corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com
.
We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those
reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to
time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished
to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free
of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them
with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any
of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The
SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that
file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is
http://www.sec.gov
...
of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
.
These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by
writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our
principal offices.
A
description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics
for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor
Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on
our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or
waiver.
Certain
financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report
to Shareholders under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 11 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is
incorporated herein by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders
are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1A.
RISK
FACTORS
The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only
risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional
factors that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally,
as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently
consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General
economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect
our financial performance.
General
economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may
adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing
market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer
disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt
levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory
changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely
affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart
U.S. segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one
with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases
of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on
inventory. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, decreases in consumer
disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the local housing market, currency devaluations and other
adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate
may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries,
especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than
in the United States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins,
cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect
our operations and operating results in our International segment.
11
Higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs,
inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange
rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the
imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated
with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other
economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have
operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and
administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and
international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that
affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of
our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an
increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more
extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the
volume typically available to us for sale.
We
may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including
conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our
financial performance.
Our
expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts
successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to
increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.
Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood
Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into
supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and
retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.
Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings
of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community
action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the
adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our
ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into
supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and
states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit
our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into
supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores,
Neighborhood Markets or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into
supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income
growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets
into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise
not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be
adversely affected.
Impediments
to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our
financial performance.
Our
business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective
acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our
existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries
in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing
operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those
countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or
Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States,
our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a
market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our
ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to
acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability
to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites
on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to
local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units
or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover,
cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we
introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not
being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will
be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.
If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International
segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be
unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable
prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such
candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to
successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing
operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be
successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in
a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for
acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and
alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our
International segment and our future financial performance.
Failure
to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor
issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our
ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad
depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of
qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability
to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing
stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors,
including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the
work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within
those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other
insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and
regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified
personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if
new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial
performance could be affected adversely.
We
face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.
The
retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes
for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other
important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national
retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we
have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating
discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets,
supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and
catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club
operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and
general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based
retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with
retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale
club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and
availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store
amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers
through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and
Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our
competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with
competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to
respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets
could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating
segments.
Although
the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the
retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result
in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail
marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved
financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive
positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider
variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated
companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
12
Risks
associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety
of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.
The
products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international
suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important
factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with
applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be
...
timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect
to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and
economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located,
the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier
standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw
materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates,
transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other
factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located
are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies,
tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on
certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods
or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors
relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors
affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our
financial performance.
Our
customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the
safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then
sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to
seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs,
even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence
on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As
such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell,
regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial
performance.
Our
International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions
specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely
affect our financial performance.
We
currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India
and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2009, our
International operations generated 24.6% of our net sales. As a result of a
recent acquisition of operations and our expansion activities in foreign
countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a
larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in
these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be
negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our
control. These factors include political conditions, including political
instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade
policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we
operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or
regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on
future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect
our financial performance.
Moreover,
the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the
past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if
they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other
factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade,
monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries,
laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and
similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities
located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United
States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally
include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international
operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing
intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The
various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also
exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated
by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to
...
occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and
earthquakes, other weather conditions, such as major winter storms, and
geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally
and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial
performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our
properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers,
the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term
disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the
disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in
the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in
which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our
stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and
disruption in our communications with our stores.  These factors could
otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial
performance.
The
significant property damage experienced by the Company and others resulting from
the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property
insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance
markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the Company for
named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more
limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to
us. As a result the Company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses
that may result from named windstorms.
13
We
are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are
involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment,
tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us
or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous
cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought
claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we
are a defendant in
Dukes v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all
past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale
clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes
present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we
have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in
promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things,
injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On
June 4, 2004, the U.S. district court hearing this case issued an order
granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided
three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
upheld the district court’s ruling. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed
...
new Petition for Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13,
2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. The court of
appeals heard oral argument on the Petition on March 24, 2009. We discuss these
cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under
the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are
included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
If
we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage
our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become
subject to litigation.
As do
most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In
addition, our online operations at
www.walmart.com
and
...
depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of
our security systems that results in customer personal information being
obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or
the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that
we expend significant additional resources related to our information security
systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our
...
Although
we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary
computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year,
it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical
computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are
subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic
events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our
employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease
to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or
replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.
Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems
may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In
addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information
technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer
systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of
system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken,
although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.
If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to
realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these
initiatives.
We
...
difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our
customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our
ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer
preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing
consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and
our market share.
...
number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs
located in each state in the United States and the number of units located in
each of the countries in which we operate at January 31, 2009 are disclosed
in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2009 End-of-Year
Store Count” and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual
Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
United
States.
As of January 31, 2009, in the United States, we owned 3,100
of the buildings in which discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets
operated and 483 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on
which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company. In the
United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs
operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or
operating lease arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection
with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide
for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In
some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.
Substantially
all of the Company’s store leases have renewal options, some of which include
escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
We use
independent contractors to construct our buildings.
Our 121
Walmart U.S. and 26 Sam’s Club distribution centers are located strategically
throughout the continental United States. Of these 147 distribution facilities,
we owned and operated 114 distribution facilities and third parties owned and
operated the remaining 33 distribution facilities.
We own
office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and
lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com
operations and field management.
International.
We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of
owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment
operates. As of January 31, 2009, we owned 23 properties in Argentina, 143
properties in Brazil, 118 properties in Canada, 94 properties in Chile, 63
properties in Costa Rica, 8 properties in El Salvador, 14 properties in
Guatemala, 7 properties in Honduras, 52 properties in Japan, 492 properties in
Mexico, 21 properties in Nicaragua, 11 properties in Puerto Rico and 232
properties in the United Kingdom in which operating units are located, with the
remaining units in each such country and the properties in which the operating
units are located in China being leased on terms that vary from property to
property. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in
each country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations
are supported by 146 distribution facilities as of January 31,
2009.  Of these 146 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34
and leased and operated 34. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 78
distribution facilities.
For
further information on our distribution centers, see the caption “Distribution”
provided for each of our segments under “Item 1. Business.”
ITEM 3.
LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS
I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against
us in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned “Legal
Proceedings,” and refer you to that discussion for important information
concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and,
where known, the relief sought, as well as, the pending settlement of 63 of the
wage-and-hour class actions pending against us identified below. Our
Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto are included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are
an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by
reference. We provide the following additional information concerning those
legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which
the lawsuit is pending and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit
was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc.
Wage-and-Hour
Class Actions Included in Settlement Agreements: Adcox v. WM, US Dist. Ct.
(“USDC”), Southern Dist. of TX, 11/9/04; Armijo v. WM, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct.,
Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00; Bailey v. WM, Marion County Superior Ct. IN,
8/17/00; Barnett v. WM, Superior Ct. of WA, King County, 9/10/01; Basco v. WM,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of LA, 9/5/00; Bayardo v. WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 3/19/07;
Brogan v. WM, Superior Ct. of NH, Strafford County, 2/17/05; Brogan v. WM, USDC,
...
WM, Circuit Ct., Holmes County, MS, 5/28/02; Woods v. WM, USDC, Dist. of ME,
1/12/06; Works v. WM, Circuit Ct., Miller County, AR, 5/18/05.
15
Wage-and-Hour
Class Actions Not Included in Settlement Agreements: Alix (f/k/a Gamble) v. WM,
Supreme Ct. of the State of NY, County of Albany, 12/7/01; Braun/Hummel v. WM,
Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Bryan v. WM,
...
County, 2/6/01; Smith/Ballard v. WM, USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, 3/16/06;
Williams v. WM, Superior Ct. of CA, Alameda County, 3/23/04.
Braun
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:  Braun v. WM, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct.
Dakota County MN, 9/12/01.
Exempt
Status Cases: Salvador v. WM and Sam’s West, Inc., USDC, Central Dist. of CA,
...
(Smith) v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS: Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure
of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in
accordance with that requirement:
The
District Attorney for Solano County, California, has alleged that the Company’s
store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices.
Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a
limited amount of damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer
and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002. The parties are currently
negotiating toward a resolution of this matter. While management cannot predict
the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome
...
operations.
The
District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the Company’s
store in Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices.
Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a
limited amount of damaged product containing dry granular pesticide on or about
January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution
of this matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on
the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) approached a grocery industry group to
resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling practices and to reduce the use
of ozone-depleting refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The Company then
approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan
for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types of refrigeration
equipment. The parties are currently negotiating a resolution of this matter.
While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management
does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s
...
November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the
United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, seeking
documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation,
handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain
merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company
has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of
California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential
violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean
Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S.
Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks
to transport certain returned merchandise from the Company’s stores to its
return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered
hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company
must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous waste” directly to a
certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The
Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its
return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified
...
its own investigation regarding the Company’s handling of hazardous materials
and hazardous waste and the Company has received administrative document
requests from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting
documents and information with respect to two of the Company’s distribution
facilities. Further, the Company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles
County District Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative
interrogatories requesting information, among other things, regarding the
...
Missouri Department of Natural Resources (“Department”) alleging various
violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with
the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company had contracted
for recycling services. The Department alleges that the Company provided certain
items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous
waste. The EPA has inspected the contractor’s facilities, and both the EPA and
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri are conducting
...
Eduardo
Castro-Wright
Vice
Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for the Walmart U.S.
Division. From September 2005 to November 2008, he served as Executive
Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.
Division.  From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as
Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S. Division.
From December 2002 to February 2005, he served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Wal-Mart de Mexico.
2008
54
M.
...
Leslie
A. Dach
Executive
Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March
1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman,
Inc.
2006
54
Michael T. Duke
President
and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he
served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for the
International Division. From April 2003 to September 2005, he served as
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart
U.S. Division. From July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice
President, Administration.
...
L. Ford
Executive
Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April
2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply
Chain.
2006
46
Thomas
...
Executive
Vice President, Legal, Ethics and Corporate Secretary. From June 2003 to
June 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate
Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From July 2001 to June 2003, he served as
Executive Vice President and Senior General Counsel.
2005
60
C.
Douglas McMillon
Executive
Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, International
Division. From 2005 to 2009, he served as Executive Vice President,
President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club Division. From August
2002 to August 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Merchandising
...
56
H.
Lee Scott, Jr.
Chairman
of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. From January 2000 to
January 2009, he served as President and Chief Executive
Officer.
...
60
S.
Robson Walton
Chairman
of the Board of Directors.
1992
64
...
served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December
2005, he served as Vice President and Assistant Controller. Prior to
September 2005, he served as Vice President and Controller at Southwest
Airlines Co. since 2001.
2007
49
New
...
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s Sam’s Club Division,
effective as of April 3, 2009. Since June 2007, Mr. Cornell has served as Chief
Executive Officer of Michaels Stores, Inc., an arts and crafts specialty
retailer and will serve in that capacity until April 2, 2009. He was Executive
Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Safeway Inc., a food and drug
retailer, from April 2004 until June 2007. Prior to joining Safeway, he held
senior management positions with PepsiCo, Inc.
17
PART II
...
REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES
Certain
information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information included under the captions “Market price of common
stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Our
common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock
Exchange. At March 27, 2009, the latest practicable date, there were
298,263 common stock shareholders of record.
From time
to time, we have repurchased shares of our common stock under a $10.0 billion
share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in September
2004.
On
May 31, 2007, the Board of Directors replaced the $10.0 billion share
repurchase program, which had $3.3 billion of remaining authorization for share
repurchases, with a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program announced on
June 1, 2007. Under the new share repurchase program, there is no
expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make
our share repurchases under the new program, which will expire only when and if
we have repurchased $15.0 billion of our shares under the program. Under the new
program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued
status. We consider several factors in determining when to execute the share
repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our capacity
for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock.
At January 31, 2009, approximately $5.0 billion remained of the $15.0
billion authorization. As a result of the economic environment and instability
of the credit markets, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in
October 2008. We reinstituted our share repurchase program in February 2009 and
will continue to monitor market conditions in connection with our
program.
There was
no share repurchase activity for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA
The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “Five-Year Financial Summary” included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S
...
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND
...
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in
an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,”
“Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’
Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is
included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
18
ITEM 9.
...
Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We
maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to
provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely
disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In
designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide
only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our
management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and
procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.
Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we
maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over
financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve
such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an
effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as
implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual
processes.
...
report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report
of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public
accounting firm, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated in this
Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are
included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
...
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Information
required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family
relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and
certain beneficial owners of the Company’s common stock with Section 16(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference
to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board”
and “Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”
from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on June 5, 2009 (our “Proxy Statement”).
Please
see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive Officers of the
Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to
Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
No
material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the
Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures
were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our 2008 Annual Shareholders’
Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The
information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee
financial expert and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other
associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the captions “Information About the Board—Board Committees,”
“Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Corporate
Governance—Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial
Officers”  included in our Proxy Statement. “Item 1. Business,” above
contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of
Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on
our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION
The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Information About
the Board – Compensation of the Directors” and under the sub-captions
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation
Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included
in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the sub-captions “Holdings of Major Shareholders” and
“Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock
Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS
AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE
The
...
Statements
The
financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the
portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13
hereto.
Annual
Report
to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated
Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended
...
Balance Sheets at January 31, 2009 and 2008
19
Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the
period ended January 31, 2009
20
Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2009
21
Notes
...
Financial Reporting
43
Management’s
Report to Our Shareholders
44
All
schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or
...
of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the
First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal
Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II,
Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D.
Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number
33-11394).
...
Number 333-130569).
+10(a)
Form
of individual deferred compensation agreements is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(b) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company, as amended, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1986 (which
document may be found and reviewed in the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
...
22
+10(c)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated
effective March 31, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10(g) from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the
fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, filed on April 9,
...
1997.
+10(e)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective
February 1, 2003 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2004, filed on April 9, 2004.
...
26, 2004.
+10(m)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated
effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year
ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended January 1, 2005, is
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K of the Company dated June 9, 2005.
+10(o)
Form
of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified
Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated June 9,
2005.
+10(p)
Form
of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Restrictive Stock Award,
Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated June 9, 2005.
23
+10(q)
Form
of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Share Award,
Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated June 9, 2005.
+10(r)
Form
of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Based
Restrictive Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of
Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report
on Form 8-K of the Company, dated September 28, 2005.
...
2008.
+10(w)
Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective
January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise provided therein) is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated March 7, 2006.
...
re computation of ratios.
*13
Portions
of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January
31, 2009. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 is filed
with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to
Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b)
(13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List
...
S. Robson Walton
S.
Robson Walton
Chairman
of the Board and Director
DATE:
April 1, 2009
...
April 1, 2009
By
/s/
Aida M. Alvarez
Aida
M. Alvarez
Director
DATE:
...
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
H.
Lee Scott, Jr.
Chairman
of the Executive
Committee
of the Board
[Total relevant lines: 1703]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2009 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2010-03-30.html)
================================================================================
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “accelerated filer,”
...
No
x
As of July 31, 2009, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant,
based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2009, was $107,499,377,333. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and
beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant
had 3,759,007,514 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 26, 2010.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2010 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an exhibit to this Form
10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 4, 2010 (“Proxy Statement”)
Part III
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together
with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Walmart” or the “company”) has previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. The forward-looking statements included or
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we
expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including our expected sales or earnings per share for certain periods and our comparable stores
sales for a period, the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, conversion of discount stores into
supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our
business strategy, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our
business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in expected sales of certain categories of products, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our customers, our
operations and our results of operations, our annual tax rate, and other similar matters. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could
occur,” “could result,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “plan,” “projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will
change,” “will decrease,” “will have,” “will increase” and “will remain.” Although we believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and such
reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed
or implied in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, that are outside our
control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales for any period, business
operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including the current economic crisis and disruption in the financial markets, unemployment levels, credit
availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, deflation, the cost of the goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline,
natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and
other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather patterns, catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability and transport of goods from domestic
and foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations and volatility, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, costs of compliance with
laws and regulations, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist attacks. Moreover, we
typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The foregoing list of factors that may affect
our operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity are subject to other risk factors, which we discuss below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” In addition, from time to time we may disclose additional risk factors in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports
filed with the SEC. Readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based
on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being
realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make including those made
herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized
2
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Walmart,” the “company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various
formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”)
while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent
promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico operations. Our fiscal year ends on December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, we had net sales of
$405.0 billion.
Our operations comprise three business segments: Walmart U.S., International and Sam’s Club.
Our Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 63.8% of our fiscal 2010 net sales and operates retail
stores in different formats in the United States, as well as Walmart’s online retail operations, walmart.com.
Our
International segment consists of retail operations in 14 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 24.7% of our fiscal 2010 net sales. The International segment includes numerous different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including
discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s Clubs that operate outside the United States.
Our Sam’s Club segment
consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and the segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.5% of our fiscal 2010 net sales.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L.
Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers,
Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest
along with Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international
presence has continued to expand. At January 31, 2010, our International segment was comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries
operating in five countries in Central America, and in Chile and Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.
As of the end of fiscal 2010, we operated 803 discount stores, 2,747 supercenters, 158 Neighborhood Markets and 596 Sam’s Clubs in the United States. Our International segment operated units in
Argentina (43), Brazil (434), Canada (317), Chile (252), Costa Rica (170), El Salvador (77), Guatemala (164), Honduras (53), India (1), Japan (371), Mexico (1,469), Nicaragua (55), Puerto Rico (56) and the United Kingdom (371) at the end
of fiscal 2010. We also operated 279 stores in China through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries at the end of fiscal 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2010, our Indian business consisted of wholesale cash-and-carry and
back-end supply chain management operations through our joint venture with Bharti Enterprises and technical support to the retail stores of Bharti Retail through a franchise agreement.
4
Our Business Segments
The company is engaged in the operations of retail stores located in all 50 states of the United States, our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United
Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries in Central America, Chile and Mexico and our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. The company defines our segments as those business units whose operating results
our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.
The
Walmart U.S. segment includes the company’s mass merchant concept in the United States operating under the “Walmart” or “Wal-Mart” brand, as well as walmart.com. The International segment consists of the company’s
operations outside of the 50 United States. The Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States, as well as samsclub.com.
The company measures the results of its segments using each segment’s operating income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each
segment’s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so, the segment operating income for each segment affected by the revisions is restated for all
periods presented to maintain comparability.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $258.2 billion, $255.3 billion and $238.9 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store, supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with
supercenters in 48 states, discount stores in 47 states and Neighborhood Markets in 16 states. Supercenters range in size from 80,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 185,000 square feet. Our discount stores
range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 108,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 14,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000
square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
STORE COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
Walmart U.S.
Discount
Stores
Fiscal Year
...
)
803
86,869
Walmart U.S.
Neighborhood Markets
Total Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
Total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
5
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units,
listed below, across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery, as well as
consumables such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid
service;
•
Hardlines consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting
goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal merchandise;
•
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and jewelry;
•
Health and Wellness includes pharmacy and optical services; and
•
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill
payment.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also
market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including “Great Value,” “Equate,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Spring Valley,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Marketside,” “Oak
Leaf,” “Prima Della,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic Works,” “Secret Treasures,” “Puritan,” “Hometrends,”
“Mainstays,” “Ozark Trail,” “White Stag” and “Canopy.” The company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “General Electric,” “Black &
Decker,” “Rival,” “Disney,” “Better Homes & Gardens,” “OP,” “Starter,” “Danskin Now” and “Just My Size.”
Sales for the Walmart U.S. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during the fiscal year ended:
January 31,
STRATEGIC MERCHANDISE UNITS
2010
2009
Grocery
51
%
49
%
Entertainment
13
%
13
...
%
11
%
Health and Wellness
10
%
10
...
%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of
discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. We
accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards, EBT cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept
payments for products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the
first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts,
discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. Our discount stores and Neighborhood Markets compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores
and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites.
Our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within
the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
EDLP – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
6
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Store of the Community – a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local
community in which that store is located;
...
Win, Play and Show – a strategy to select a merchandise assortment based on our growth potential, economies of scale and customer credibility in
each business;
•
Save Even More – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s advertised price on key value items; and
•
Project Impact – a program to clarify merchandise offerings, improve customer experience, and increase productivity.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that
we will have what they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. We believe these factors provide us with additional competitive advantages.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2010, approximately 79% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped
to the segment’s stores through our distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we
contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our Walmart U.S.
segment operations are supported by 120 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2010, located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 120 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. Third parties owned and
operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. During fiscal 2010, the company opened a third-party return center and dot com facility; one owned return center and two third-party facilities were closed. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S.
segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items.
International Segment
The International segment’s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, were $100.1
billion, $98.8 billion and $90.6 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales.
General.
Our International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned
subsidiaries operating in five countries in Central America, and in Chile and Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.
INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
(In thousands)
Argentina
...
Canada
Central America
Chile
China
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
49,401
Japan
(2)
India
Mexico
Puerto Rico
United
Kingdom
Total
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
4,112
269,894
(1)
International unit counts, with the exception of Canada and Puerto Rico, are stated as of December 31, 2009 for fiscal 2010 and December 31, 2008 for fiscal
2009 to correspond with their Balance Sheet date. Balances prior to fiscal 2009 are stated as of January 31 of the corresponding fiscal year. Excludes units and square footage for our operations in Germany and South Korea, which we disposed of
in October 2006. Square footage is reported in thousands.
7
(2)
Excludes 43 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu stores, which have closed or will close
in fiscal 2011.
International unit counts and operating formats
(1)
:
Country
...
93
2
252
China
—
—
167
...
1
6
53
India
—
—
—
...
111
1
371
Mexico
(3)
202
246
...
1,119
4,112
(1)
International unit counts, with the exception of Canada and Puerto Rico, are stated as of December 31, 2009 for fiscal 2010 to correspond with their Balance Sheet
date.
(2)
“Other” format includes 23 Sam’s Clubs, 43 cash-n-carry stores, 100 combination discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise store.
(3)
“Other” format includes 98 Sam’s Clubs, 308 combination discount and grocery stores, 86 department stores and 360 restaurants.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the International segment is similar to that of our operations in the United
States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the United States have been developed to serve customers in the different
markets in which the International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by country and by individual markets
within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers. Other
consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Across the
International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. In addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The International segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, a
large volume of sales occur in our fourth fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket,
discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate local, national and
international restaurant chains in Mexico, and consumer finance operations in Chile and in Mexico. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment determines, to a large
extent, our competitive position. In our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 132 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa
Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, including two export
8
consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the International segment. During
fiscal 2010, approximately 83% of the International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in
which we operate. Of these 132 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 37. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 61 distribution facilities.
Sam’s Club Segment
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $46.7
billion, $46.9 billion and $44.3 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales.
General.
As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs
generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.samsclub.com
.
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE
(1)
Fiscal Year
...
Sam’s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods
and selected private-label items including “Member’s Mark,” “Bakers & Chefs” and “Sam’s Club” brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format.
•
Food & Beverages, including dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
floral and other grocery items;
•
Health and Wellness, including pharmacy and optical services, HBA, OTC, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and restaurant
supplies;
•
Technology, Office and Entertainment, including electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, toys, office supplies, office
furniture and photo processing;
•
Home and Apparel, including home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, house wares, seasonal items, mattresses
and small appliances; and
•
Tobacco/Candy and Fuel/Auto, including snack foods, tobacco, tools and power equipment, tire and battery centers and gasoline stations.
Sales for the Sam’s Club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal
year ended:
January 31,
CATEGORY
2010
2009
Food & Beverage
39
%
39
%
Health & Wellness
19
%
18
%
Technology, Office & Entertainment
10
%
10
...
%
9
%
Tobacco/Candy & Fuel/Auto
24
%
24
...
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday
from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday
through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are
accepted at our clubs, including debit cards, certain types of credit cards, and a private label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products
and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Members include both business owners and individual consumers.
Individual consumers are referred to as Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee
for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 each. Sam’s Club
PLUS is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates to their
business membership for $35 each.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club segment’s business
is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter.
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale
grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality
merchandise to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2010, approximately 63% of the Sam’s Club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and some of the Walmart U.S.
segment’s distribution centers for certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2010, our Sam’s Club segment operations were supported by 26
distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 26 distribution facilities, we owned and operated eight. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 18 distribution facilities.
The principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking merchandise, while stored inventory is
minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour.
Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from
distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual
Report to Shareholders under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is
incorporated herein by reference. Note 14 includes information regarding our net revenues received from external customers and the total assets of continuing operations we held in the United States and the other countries in which we
operate. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal 2010, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees
(“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 700,000 associates internationally. Similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees
and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. In the United States, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the Walmart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, store discount cards or Sam’s
Club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life insurance. The company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The
company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
10
In our operations outside the United States, the company provides a variety of associate
benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other
Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com
. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed
with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy
any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is
http://www.sec.gov
. Our SEC
filings, our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who
requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A
description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate
Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The
risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors
that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the
United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher
consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and
services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover
and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations
in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in
which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in
our International segment.
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher
costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in
other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our
domestic and international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase
in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
11
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of
discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy depends
upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters,
discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on
acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and
the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real
estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets or Sam’s Clubs or
continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our
retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries
in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam’s
Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate,
hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to
expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into
which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more
difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we
ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be
successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of
our International segment and our future financial performance.
Failure to attract and retain qualified associates,
changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to
expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill
positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number
of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and
labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial
performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators,
which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business
segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we
have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with
12
retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our
Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog
businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers
and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers
through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks and Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at
points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial
performance. See “Item 1. Business” above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and
significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other
improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial
performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could
adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified
as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located
and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems
experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the
countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation
of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely
affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety
of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for
the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could
adversely affect our financial performance.
Our International operations subject us to risks associated with the
legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Puerto Rico, and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2010, our International operations generated 24.7% of our net sales. As a result of our
expansion activities in foreign countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout
the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies,
both of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have
an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
13
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the
past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade, monetary and
fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have
historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater
difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be
exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, other weather conditions, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, such as major winter storms,
droughts and tornados, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and
financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term
disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we
are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. These factors could otherwise disrupt and
adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
The significant property damage experienced by the company and
others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the
company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to us. As a result, the company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for
losses that may result from named windstorms.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include
consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant
in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on
behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege
that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On
June 4, 2004, the U.S. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the district court’s ruling. On February 20, 2007, the company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the Court of Appeals. On
November 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the company’s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. The company filed a new Petition for
Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. The court of appeals heard oral argument on the Petition on March 24, 2009. We discuss these cases and other
litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which are incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
If we do
not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our online operations at
www.walmart.com
and
www.samsclub.com
depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in
customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in
14
litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and
could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
We rely extensively on computer
systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. Implementation of a new financial system in fiscal year 2011, if
not properly completed, could make financial information unavailable on a timely basis and delay our financial reporting.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business
critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as
fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer
interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex
initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant
system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these
initiatives.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we expect to implement a new financial system in our U.S., Canada and
Puerto Rico operations. The implementation of this new financial system relates to the largest portion of our business and will be a significant component of our internal controls over financial reporting. If the new financial system does not
...
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers,
the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully
the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to
changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
...
PROPERTIES
The
number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs located in each state in the United States and the number of units located in each of the countries in which we operate are disclosed as of fiscal year-end
January 31, 2010 in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2010 End-of-Year Store Count” and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of January 31, 2010, in the United States, we owned 3,214 of
the buildings in which discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets operated and 483 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the company. In the United
States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue
bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume. Substantially all of the company’s
store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
We use
independent contractors to construct our buildings.
15
Our 120 Walmart U.S. and 26 Sam’s Club distribution centers are located strategically
throughout the continental United States. Of these 146 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113 distribution facilities and third parties owned and operated the remaining 33 distribution facilities.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the United States for
our walmart.com operations and field management.
International.
We operate our International segment stores and
restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment operates. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we owned 33 properties in Argentina, 161 properties in Brazil, 117 properties in Canada, 125
properties in Chile, 1 property in China, 69 properties in Costa Rica, 9 properties in El Salvador, 14 properties in Guatemala, 7 properties in Honduras, 52 properties in Japan, 530 properties in Mexico, 25 properties in Nicaragua, 11 properties in
Puerto Rico and 239 properties in the United Kingdom. The remaining operating units in each such country are leased on terms that vary from property to property. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in
which we are conducting business. As of the end of fiscal 2010, our International operations are supported by 132 distribution facilities. Of these 132 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 37. Third parties owned
and operated the remaining 61 distribution facilities.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption
“Distribution” provided for each of our segments under “Item 1. Business.”
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against us in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned “Legal Proceedings,” and refer you to that discussion for important information
concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Portions of our Annual
Report to Shareholders are an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the
court in which the lawsuit is pending, the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed and certain other information. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage-and-Hour Class Actions:
Braun/Hummel v. WM
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 & 8/30/04;
Bryan v. WM
...
EEOC (Smith) v. WM,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/24/01 (settled).
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
The District Attorney for Solano County, California, has alleged that the company’s store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and
hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the company improperly disposed of a limited amount of damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002.
The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial
condition or results of operations.
The District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the company’s store in
Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with certain California statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices. Specifically, the County is alleging that the company improperly disposed of a limited amount of
damaged product
16
containing dry granular pesticide on or about January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution of this matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome
of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) approached a grocery industry group to resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling practices and to reduce the use of ozone-depleting
refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The company then approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types of refrigeration equipment. The parties are
currently negotiating a resolution of this matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial condition or results of
operations.
In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the “USACE”) was
...
mitigation measures and working with the USACE to resolve the matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial condition
or results of operations.
On November 8, 2005, the company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office
for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous
materials or hazardous waste. The company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act (“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the
company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the company must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous
waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by
certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial
condition or results of operations.
Additionally, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California has initiated its
own investigation regarding the company’s handling of hazardous materials and hazardous waste and the company has received administrative document requests from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting documents and
information with respect to two of the company’s distribution facilities. Further, the company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative interrogatories requesting
information, among other things, regarding the company’s handling of materials and hazardous waste. California state and local government authorities have also initiated investigations into these matters. The company is cooperating fully with
the respective authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations.
On March 28, 2008, the company received a Notice of Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (the “Department”) alleging
various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the company had contracted for recycling services. The Department alleges that the company provided certain
items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. The EPA has inspected the contractor’s facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri are conducting
investigations. The company has submitted a response to the Notice of Violation and is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a
material effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations.
...
is cooperating with the County’s investigation. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the company’s financial condition or
results of operations.
17
On November 6, 2009, the California South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”)
notified the company that it has instituted an investigation into whether Wal-Mart stores located in the 4-county SCAQMD jurisdiction sold paints and other coatings that contained volatile organic compounds in excess of SCAQMD limits. The
company and the SCAQMD have entered into a settlement agreement pursuant to which the company will pay $850,000 in civil penalties and $150,000 in investigation costs, and will contribute $950,000 to a fund for the benefit of the residents of the
SCAQMD.
ITEM 4.
...
Held Since
Age
Eduardo Castro-Wright
Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart U.S. From September 2005 to November 2008, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive
Officer, Walmart U.S. From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S. From December 2002 to February 2005, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart de Mexico.
2008
55
M. Susan Chambers
...
52
Brian C. Cornell
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club. From June 2007 to April 2009, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Michaels, Inc., an arts
and crafts specialty retailer. From April 2004 to June 2007, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Safeway, Inc., a food and drug retailer.
2009
51
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
55
Michael T. Duke
President and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International. From April
2003 to September 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. From July 2000 to April 2003, he served as Executive Vice President, Administration.
2009
60
Rollin L. Ford
Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.
2006
47
Thomas D. Hyde
Executive Vice President, Legal, Ethics and Corporate Secretary. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs and Corporate
Secretary. From July 2001 to June 2003, he served as Executive Vice President and Senior General Counsel.
2005
61
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. From 2005 to 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive
Officer, Sam’s Club. From August 2002 to August 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Replenishment, Sam’s Club.
2009
43
...
2000
57
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. From January 2000 to January 2009, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer.
2009
61
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
65
Steven P. Whaley
Senior Vice President and Controller. From December 2005 to January 2007, he served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December 2005, he served as Vice
President and Assistant Controller. Prior to September 2005, he served as Vice President and Controller at Southwest Airlines Co. since 2001.
2007
50
19
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions
“Market price of common stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 26, 2010, the latest practicable
date, there were 292,983 common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, we have repurchased shares of our common
stock under a $15.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors on June 4, 2009 and announced on June 5, 2009, which replaced and terminated a $15.0 billion share repurchase program approved by our Board of
Directors on May 31, 2007 and announced on June 1, 2007. As was the case with the replaced share repurchase program, the new program has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which we can make our share
repurchases, and will expire only when and if we have repurchased $15.0 billion of our shares under the program or we terminate or replace the program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. We consider
several factors in determining when to execute the share repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our capacity for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock. As of January 31, 2010, the
program had approximately $9.2 billion of remaining authorization for share repurchases.
Share repurchase activity under our
share repurchase program was as follows during our quarter ended January 31, 2010:
Fiscal Period
Total
Number of
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
per Share
Total
Number of
...
$
9.2
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Five-Year Financial Summary” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
20
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,”
“Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm”
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures
that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize
that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and
procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with
respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over
financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new,
more efficient systems and automating manual processes. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new financial system in stages. As part of the first stage, we implemented this financial system in ASDA, our United Kingdom
subsidiary. The second stage, implementing the financial system in the U.S. and our subsidiaries in Canada and Puerto Rico, which is the largest portion of our business, is planned to occur in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. This new financial
system is a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages, and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial
...
disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC’s rules and forms.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on the
company’s internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated into this Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the company’s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the company’s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial
owners of the company’s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board” and
“Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 4, 2010 (our “Proxy Statement”).
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement
relating to our 2009 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit
Committee, including our audit committee financial experts, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions “Information
About the Board—Board Committees,” “Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Corporate Governance—Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers” included in our Proxy Statement.
“Item 1. Business,” above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions “Information About the Board – Compensation of the Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and under the
sub-captions “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions “Holdings of Major
Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy
Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party
Transactions,” under the caption “Corporate Governance – Transaction Review Policy” and under the caption “Information About the Board—Director Independence” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
...
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial
statements listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2010
19
Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2010 and 2009
20
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2010
21
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2010
22
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
23
...
49
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
50
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
51
All schedules have been omitted because
the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of
Boston and James
23
E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella,
Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4(d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
...
Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).
*10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009.
+10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the 2008 Proxy Statement.
+10(c)
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended June 4, 2004, are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal
year ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
...
Form of Post -Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete.
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005, filed on March 31, 2005.
+10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended January 1, 2005, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated
June 9, 2005.
24
+10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the
Company dated June 9, 2005.
*10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award.
*10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Performance Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award.
+10(l)
Amendment to form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated December 12, 2005.
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2005) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
the Company dated March 7, 2006.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (except as otherwise provided therein) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated March 7, 2006.
+10(o)
Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and H. Lee Scott, Jr., dated November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
...
*12
Statement re computation of ratios.
*13
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2010. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
101.INS**+
XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman
of the Board and Director
DATE: March 30, 2010
By
...
(Principal Accounting Officer)
DATE: March 30, 2010
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 30, 2010
By
...
By
/s/ H. Lee Scott, Jr.
H. Lee Scott, Jr.
Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Board
and Director
DATE: March 30, 2010
[Total relevant lines: 971]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2010 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2011-03-30.html)
================================================================================
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
...
¨
No
x
As of July 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York
Stock Exchange reported on July 30, 2010, was $99,339,978,808. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial
owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,491,198,520
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 (the “Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an
exhibit to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 3, 2011 (the “Proxy Statement”)
Part III
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its
subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Walmart” or the “Company”) has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. The
forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance,
activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including our expected sales, the expected sales of
one or more of our operating segments, or our earnings per share for certain periods, and our comparable stores sales or comparable club sales of one of our operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, the amount, nature
and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets
or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly
acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase
our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in expected sales of certain categories of products, our liquidity and ability to access the
capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our customers, our operations and our results of operations, our effective annual tax rate, and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement.
Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could occur,” “could result,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,”
“forecast,” “guidance,” “plan,” “projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will change,” “will decrease,” “will have,” “will increase” and “will
remain,” or other phrases commencing with the word “will,” or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results. Although we
believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and such reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of
our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been
identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.
2
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and
internationally, that are outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable
store sales or comparable club sales for any period, our effective tax rate, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the
economy of the United States or other countries, economic instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, the current economic crisis and
disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment levels, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence,
consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, deflation, the cost of the goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident costs, our
casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather patterns,
catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations and volatility, trade
restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the resolution of tax matters, the outcome of legal
proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist attacks. Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our
annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our
operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity
are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by
reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.
Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based
on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other
risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this
cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments
expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we
expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Walmart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various formats around
the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a
culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.
Our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for our U.S. and Canada operations and December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, we had net sales of
approximately $419.0 billion.
Currently, our operations comprise three reportable business segments: (1) the Walmart U.S. segment;
(2) the Walmart International segment; and (3) the Sam’s Club segment.
Our Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our
business, accounting for 62.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as Walmart’s online retail operations, walmart.com.
Our Walmart International segment consists of retail operations in 14 countries. This segment generated 26.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales. The Walmart
International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, Sam’s Clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the United States and Puerto Rico.
Our Sam’s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico and the segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.8%
of our fiscal 2011 net sales.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although
Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a
similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In 1984,
we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra
S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. At
January 31, 2011, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 14 countries.
4
Our Business Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail stores located in all 50 states of the United States and Puerto Rico; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan and the United
Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Chile, Mexico and five countries in Central America; and its joint ventures in India and China and other controlled subsidiaries in China. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose
operating results the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.
The
Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company’s mass merchant concept in the United States and Puerto Rico operating under the “Walmart” or “Wal-Mart” brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of
the Company’s operations outside of the 50 United States and Puerto Rico. The Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as samsclub.com.
The Company measures the results of its segments using each segment’s operating income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. From
time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment’s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so, the segment operating income for each
segment affected by the revision is restated for all periods presented to maintain comparability.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $260.3 billion, $259.9 billion and $257.0 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store, Neighborhood Market or other small format location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico,
with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats in 16 states and Puerto Rico. Supercenters range in size from 80,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet,
with an average size of approximately 184,000 square feet. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets and other small formats
range in size from 3,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 39,000 square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase a broad
assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
(2)
Walmart
U.S.
Supercenters
Walmart U.S.
Discount
Stores
Fiscal Year
...
U.S.
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total
Walmart U.S.
Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
3,804
617,067
(1)
“Total” and “Square Feet” columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam’s Club segments. Unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the Walmart U.S. segment have been restated for all periods presented.
(3)
Includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
(4)
Total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
5
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below,
across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats.
(1)
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry
grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
(2)
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, and
seasonal merchandise;
(3)
Hardlines consist of stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts;
(4)
Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services;
(5)
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
(6)
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home décor, outdoor living and horticulture.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our
private-label store brands including “Great Value,” “Equate,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Spring Valley,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Marketside,” “Oak Leaf,” “Prima Della,”
“Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “No Boundaries,” “George,” “Athletic Works,” “Secret Treasures,” “Puritan,” “Hometrends,” “Mainstays,” “Ozark Trail,”
“White Stag” and “Canopy.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include “General Electric,” “Black & Decker,” “Rival,” “Disney,”
“Better Homes & Gardens,” “OP,” “Starter,” “Danskin Now” and “Just My Size.”
The
percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010:
January 31,
STRATEGIC MERCHANDISE UNITS
2011
2010
Grocery
54
%
53
%
Entertainment
12
%
13
...
%
11
%
Health and wellness
11
%
10
...
%
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and
Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.
We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards, EBT cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept
payments for products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The
Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income
occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.
Competition.
Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug,
variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. Our discount stores and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats compete with other supercenter-type, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and
supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites.
6
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our
customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
EDLP – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Save Even More – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s advertised price on key value items;
•
Store of the Community – a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
which that store is located; and
...
Clean, Fast and Friendly – our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers
confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2011, approximately 78% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped to the
segment’s stores through our distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract
with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our Walmart U.S. segment operations are
supported by 123 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2011, located strategically throughout the continental United States and Puerto Rico. Of these 123 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. Third parties owned and operated
the remaining 18 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items.
Walmart International Segment
The
Walmart International segment’s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $109.2 billion, $97.4 billion and $96.1 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as
much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries
operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Chile, Mexico and five countries in Central America; our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in
China. Walmart International operates units under approximately 60 different banners in numerous different formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, restaurants and, in Mexico, apparel stores. In addition, in
Mexico and Canada, Walmart International operates banks that focus on consumer lending. Our Walmart International segment offers a limited amount of consumer credit products, principally through Chile, Canada and Mexico.
7
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
(2)
(Square feet in thousands)
...
Central
America
Chile
China
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
Walmart
Japan
(3)
India
Mexico
United
Kingdom
Total
Walmart
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
4,557
286,680
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2010 for fiscal year 2011, December 31, 2009 for fiscal
year 2010 and December 31, 2008 for fiscal year 2009 to correspond to the fiscal year end for those operations. Balances for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 are stated as of January 31 of the corresponding fiscal year. The unit counts and
retail square feet also exclude our operations in Germany and South Korea, which were disposed of in October 2006.
(2)
As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam’s Club segments. Total Walmart International unit count and retail square feet data presented in the table above excludes Puerto Rico.
(3)
All prior periods have been restated to include the Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu
units which were closed in fiscal 2010.
Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 60
banners, represented in three major categories, retail, wholesale and other. Generally, retail centers range in size from 2,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 40,000 square feet to 150,000
square feet. Other, representing restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. Unit counts
(1)
for Walmart International are as follows:
Country
Retail
Wholesale
Other
Total
...
—
2
279
China
322
6
—
...
—
—
56
India
—
5
—
...
—
43
414
Mexico
1,256
108
366
...
—
—
385
International Total
3,949
197
411
4,557
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2010 to correspond with the country’s balance sheet date.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our
operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been
developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality
merchandise.
8
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment
vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards
issued by third-party providers and in Chile, Canada and Mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. Other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.
Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. In
addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries.
Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.
The Walmart International segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, the highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31 and the lowest sales volume
and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending April 30. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the
supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate local,
national and international restaurant chains in Mexico, and consumer finance operations in Canada, Chile and Mexico. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the Walmart International
segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates. In our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment’s
competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 134 distribution facilities located
in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua and the United Kingdom, including two export consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and
distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2011, approximately 77% of the Walmart International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities.
Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 134 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 38. Third
parties owned and operated the remaining 62 distribution facilities.
Sam’s Club Segment
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $49.5 billion, $47.8 billion and $48.0 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states and Puerto Rico. Facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs
generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.samsclub.com
.
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
(2)
Fiscal Year
...
609
81,202
(1)
“Total” and “Square Feet” columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
9
(2)
As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam’s Club segments. Unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the Sam’s Club segment have been restated for all periods presented.
Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items including “Member’s Mark,”
“Bakers & Chefs” and “Sam’s Club” brands in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format.
(1)
Grocery and consumables – includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack
foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
(2)
Fuel and other categories – includes gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
(3)
Technology, office and entertainment – includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, toys, office supplies, office furniture and
photo processing;
(4)
Home and apparel – includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, seasonal items, mattresses and small
appliances; and
(5)
Health and wellness – includes pharmacy and optical services, and over the counter drugs.
Sales for the Sam’s Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, were as follows during the fiscal years ended:
January 31,
CATEGORY
2011
2010
Grocery and consumables
55
%
56
%
Fuel and other categories
23
%
21
%
Technology, office and entertainment
9
%
10
...
%
8
%
Health and wellness
5
%
5
...
%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.,
Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday,
starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including
debit cards, certain types of credit cards, and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our
members’ health benefit plans.
Members include both business owners and individual consumers. Individual consumers are referred to as
Advantage Members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for Business
Members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, Business Members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 (plus
taxes, if applicable) each. Sam’s Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Club Members. The annual fee for a Primary Plus Member (Business or Advantage) is $100 (plus
taxes, if applicable). In addition, Business Plus Primary Members can add up to sixteen business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as
different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur
during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.
10
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount
retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club
sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2011, approximately 63% of the Sam’s Club segment’s non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution
facilities and some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers for certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club segment’s purchases directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2011, our
Sam’s Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 17 distribution facilities.
The principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on cross-docking
merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility,
sometimes less than an hour.
Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers to transport
non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 (the “Annual Report to Shareholders”) under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Note 16 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales and the total assets and
long-lived assets of continuing operations we held in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal 2011,
the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 0.7 million associates internationally. Similar to
other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year.
The Company maintains separate Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico. Associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Through
fiscal 2011, the Profit Sharing component of the plan was entirely funded by the Company and the Company made an additional contribution to the associates’ 401(k) component of the plan. In addition to the Company’s contributions,
associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.
Beginning in fiscal 2012, the
Company will offer a safe harbor 401(k) plan to all eligible United States associates. The Company will match 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The Company will offer the same matching contribution to all
eligible Puerto Rico associates. The matching contributions will immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may
defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.
In addition, in the United States, the Company offers
a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life
insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
In our operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
11
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has
...
Held Since
Age
Eduardo Castro-Wright
Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing. From November 2008 to July 2010, he served as Vice Chairman, responsible for Walmart U.S.
From September 2005 to November 2008, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.
2010
56
M. Susan Chambers
...
53
Brian C. Cornell
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club. From June 2007 to April 2009, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Michaels, Inc., an arts and
crafts specialty retailer. From April 2004 to June 2007, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Safeway, Inc., a food and drug retailer.
2009
52
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
56
Michael T. Duke
President and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International.
2009
61
Rollin L. Ford
Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.
2006
48
Jeffrey J. Gearhart
...
2010
54
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. From August 2005 to January 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Sam’s Club.
2009
44
William S. Simon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart
U.S. From March 2006 to March 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Professional Services, Walmart U.S.
2010
51
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
66
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
51
12
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com
. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available
to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is
http://www.sec.gov
. Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO
and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing
or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver
of Walmart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located
on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described
below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to
all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax
rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam’s Club
segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher levels of unemployment,
inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United
States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our Walmart International segment.
13
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of
labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws
and regulations and other economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic
and international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the
cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial
performance.
Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United
States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam’s Clubs and to
convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the
construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may
affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth
opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into
supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not
receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart
International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment
includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries
in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in
the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our
ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to
local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new
retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively
execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to
continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly
acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify
appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial
performance.
14
Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could
adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on
our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and
distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which
we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract
or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in
other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount,
department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as
discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate
department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including
merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly
fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors
with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a
wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an
important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find
qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic
instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to
suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In
addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain
materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our
suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost
confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
15
Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial,
accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture
agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2011, our Walmart International operations generated 26.1% of our net sales. As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the United States,
we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively
affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and
of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs
or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the
economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may
impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and
risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and
difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States
generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather
conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we
operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores,
clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace
from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers’ disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local
and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of
products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the
areas in which these types of events occur, such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.
16
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other
litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing
class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and
present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in
Dukes
currently includes present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in
a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On June 4, 2004, the U.S.
district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a decision affirming the district court’s certification order. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the Court of Appeals. On
December 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the Company’s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. The Company filed a new Petition for
Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. On April 26, 2010, the Ninth Circuit issued a divided (6-5) opinion affirming certain portions of the district
court’s ruling and reversing other portions. On August 25, 2010, the Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Ninth Circuit’s decision, which was granted by the United
States Supreme Court on December 6, 2010. The Company filed its Brief for Petitioner on January 20, 2011; the Brief for Respondents was filed on February 22, 2011; and oral argument was held on March 29, 2011. We discuss these
cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
If we do
not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our online operations at
www.walmart.com
and
www.samsclub.com
depend upon the secure
transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could
adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security
breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and
secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate
primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up
systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our
computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption
in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which
will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management
process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
17
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently
and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or
effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
...
PROPERTIES
The number of discount
stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats, and Sam’s Clubs located in each state in the United States and Puerto Rico and the number of units located in each of the countries in which we operate are disclosed as of fiscal
year-end January 31, 2011 in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2011 Unit Count” and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of January 31, 2011, in the United States and Puerto Rico, we owned 3,293 of
the buildings in which discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and other small formats operated and 498 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico operated. Land on which our stores are located is
either owned or leased by the Company. In the United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from local
governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based
on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company’s store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.
Our 123 Walmart U.S. and 25
Sam’s Club distribution centers are located strategically throughout the continental United States and Puerto Rico. Of these 148 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113 distribution facilities, and third parties owned and operated 35
of our distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.
Walmart International.
We operate our Walmart International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties
in each country in which our Walmart International segment operates. As of the end of fiscal 2011, we owned 43 properties in Argentina, 175 properties in Brazil, 119 properties in Canada, 142 properties in Chile, 1 property in China, 78 properties
in Costa Rica, 9 properties in El Salvador, 14 properties in Guatemala, 8 properties in Honduras, 52 properties in Japan, 566 properties in Mexico, 28 properties in Nicaragua and 250 properties in the United Kingdom. The remaining operating units in
each such country are leased on terms that vary from property to property. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. As of the end of fiscal 2011, our Walmart International
operations are supported by 134 distribution facilities. Of these 134 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 38. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 62 distribution facilities.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption “Distribution” provided for each of our segments under “Item 1.
Business.”
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled “Legal Proceedings,” which appears in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is incorporated by reference, and refer to the discussion of important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.
We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each
lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
18
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v. WM
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA,
3/20/02 & 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/07/07.
...
Dukes v. WM
, USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, San Francisco Div., 6/19/01; 9th Circuit Ct. of Appeals, San Francisco, CA, 8/26/04; US Supreme Court, Washington DC, 8/25/10.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District
of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous
waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the
“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the
Company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous
waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California subsequently joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice
of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) approached a grocery industry group to resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling
practices and to reduce the use of ozone-depleting refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The Company then approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types
of refrigeration equipment. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the “USACE”) was concerned about alleged
violations of a permit issued by that agency in 2003, for the fill of 0.23 acres of a creek and its contiguous wetlands during the construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico. On January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to
these issues in writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto Rico filed a formal response, implemented mitigation measures, and continues to
monitor and provide the required maintenance to the mitigation area. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition
or results of operations.
On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural
Resources (the “Department”) alleging various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company had contracted for recycling services. The
Department alleges that the Company provided certain items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. The EPA has inspected the contractor’s facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the Western District of Missouri are conducting investigations. The Company has submitted a response to the Notice of Violation and is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter,
management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
On
August 19, 2009, the Office of the District Attorney for Riverside County, California, notified the Company that it had instituted an investigation into whether violations of California laws regarding underground storage tanks occurred at two
Sam’s Club stations. The Company and the District Attorney have resolved the matter, and the settlement was approved by the court on November 22, 2010. As part of the settlement, the Company paid $750,000 in civil penalties and
$200,000 in costs.
19
In January, 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified WMS
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions “Market
price of common stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Our common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 21, 2011, the latest
practicable date, there were 283,633 common stock shareholders of record.
On June 3, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a new $15.0
billion share repurchase program, which was announced on June 4, 2010. The program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make our share repurchases and will expire only when and if we have repurchased
$15.0 billion of our shares under the program or we earlier terminate or replace the program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. We spent approximately $14.8 billion, $7.3 billion and $3.5 billion
for share repurchases during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We consider several factors in determining when to execute the share repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our
capacity for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock. At January 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion of remaining authorization for share repurchases under the existing program.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program was as follows during our quarter ended January 31, 2011:
Fiscal Period
Total
Number of
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
per Share
Total
Number of
...
69,830,867
20
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Five-Year Financial Summary” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,”
“Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm”
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to
management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal
control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new financial system in stages and to date, have
completed implementations in the United States and Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. We plan to implement our new financial system in Mexico during the second quarter of fiscal 2012. The new financial system is a significant
component of our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages, and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period
covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
...
21
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated into this Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report
to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
January 31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial
owners of the Company’s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board” and
“Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 3, 2011 (our “Proxy Statement”).
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive
Officers of the Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those
procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our 2010 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The
information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
the captions “Information About the Board—Board Committees,” “Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Corporate Governance—Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers”
included in our Proxy Statement. “Item 1. Business,” above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions “Information About the Board – Compensation of the Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and under the sub-captions
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions “Holdings of Major
Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy
Statement.
22
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions,” under the caption “Corporate
Governance—Transaction Review Policy” and under the caption “Information About the Board—Director Independence” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
...
(a)
(1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011
22
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2011 and 2010
23
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2011
24
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011
25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
26
...
50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
51
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
52
All schedules have been omitted because
the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.
...
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).
4 (c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston
and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4 (d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
...
Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).
10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a
part of the Company’s Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2008.
+10(c)
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective June 4, 2010, are incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company’s
...
Form of Post -Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
*+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004.
+10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company’s Schedule 14A filed on
April 19, 2010.
*+10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant.
+10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
*+10(l)
Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements.
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2009).
25
*+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective June 4, 2010.
+10(o)
Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and H. Lee Scott, Jr., dated November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated November 21, 2008.
...
*12
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
*13
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2011. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
101.INS**+
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 30, 2011
By
/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.
...
(Principal Accounting Officer)
DATE: March 30, 2011
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 30, 2011
By
[Total relevant lines: 989]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2011 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2012-03-27.html)
================================================================================
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes
x
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.
x
...
No
x
As of
July 29, 2011, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 29, 2011, was
$91,704,538,525. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s
outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,404,538,468 shares of common stock outstanding as of
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 (the “Annual Report to Shareholders”) included as an
exhibit to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 1, 2012 (the “Proxy Statement”)
Part III
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its
subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Walmart” or the “Company”) has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act.
The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by
reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited
to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including our sales, the sales of one or more of our operating segments, our earnings per share for certain periods, and our comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one of our
operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units
in the other countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion
and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the
anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in
expected sales of certain categories of products, our ability to leverage best practices, lessons from multiple formats and global sourcing practices, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on
our customers, our operations and our results of operations, our effective annual tax rate, and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of
words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could occur,” “could result,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “plan,”
“projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will change,” “will decrease,” “will have,” “will increase,” and “will remain,” or words or other phrases commencing with the
word “will,” or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, which are outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and
uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales or comparable club sales and effective tax rate for any period, business operations,
business strategy, plans, goals or objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or other specific markets in which we operate, economic instability,
changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises and disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt
crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment and partial employment levels, employment conditions within our markets, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer credit
availability, consumer spending patterns, consumer debt levels, inflation, deflation, commodity prices, the cost of the goods we sell, competitive pressures, the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our
other markets, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the selling prices of fuel, the cost of healthcare and other benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs,
information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, availability of qualified labor pools in the specific markets in which we operate, zoning, land use
and other regulatory restrictions, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather conditions and events, catastrophic events and natural disasters, as well as storm and other damage to our stores, clubs, distribution centers and other
facilities and store closings and other limitations on customer access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events and disasters, disruption in our supply chain, including availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign
suppliers, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in corporate tax rates, costs of compliance with laws and
regulations, the resolution of tax matters, developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject, currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility, fluctuations in market rates of interest, and
other conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets, public health emergencies, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks.
Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many
factors.
The foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and
unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss
below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and
2
appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the
SEC. Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are
based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the
other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently,
this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments
expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we
expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Walmart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in various formats around
the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices (“EDLP”) while fostering a
culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price everyday so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.
Our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for our United States (“U.S.”) and Canadian operations and December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2012, we generated net sales of approximately $443.9 billion.
Currently, our operations comprise three reportable
business segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam’s Club segment.
Our Walmart U.S. segment is
the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately 60% of our fiscal 2012 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as Walmart’s online retail operations,
walmart.com.
Our Walmart International segment consists of retail operations in 26 countries. This segment generated approximately 28% of our
fiscal 2012 net sales. The Walmart International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, Sam’s Clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the U.S.
Our Sam’s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as the segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club
accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2012 net sales.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.
In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’ business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a
discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with
Cifra S.A. de C.V. (“Cifra”). In 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued
to expand. At January 31, 2012, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 26 countries.
Our Business Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of: retail stores located throughout the United States; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa, and 5 countries in Central America; and its joint ventures in India and China and other controlled subsidiaries
in China. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.
The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company’s mass merchant concept under the “Walmart” or “Wal-Mart” brand, as well as
walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company’s operations outside of the U.S. The Sam’s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment’s operating income, which we calculate by including
certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment’s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so,
the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
4
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $264.2 billion, $260.3 billion and $259.9 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter,
discount store, Neighborhood Market or other small store format location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico,
with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in 18 states and Puerto Rico. Supercenters range in size from 78,000 square feet to 260,000 square
feet, with an average size of approximately 182,000 square feet. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets and other small
formats range in size from 3,000 square feet to 64,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 38,000 square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase
a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Walmart
U.S.
Supercenters
Walmart U.S.
Discount
Stores
Fiscal
...
U.S.
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total
Walmart U.S.
Segment
Fiscal
Year
Opened
...
3,868
626,686
(1)
“Total” and “Square Feet” columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Includes conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other
small store formats. The percentage of net sales calculated below reflects sales of our brick and mortar stores, as well as sales of our online business.
(1)
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry
grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
(2)
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and
books;
(3)
Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;
(4)
Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services;
(5)
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
(6)
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home décor, outdoor living and horticulture.
5
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, wire
transfers, check cashing and bill payment. These services total less than 1% of annual sales.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a
significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including: “Canopy,” “Equate,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,”
“George,” “Great Value,” “Hometrends,” “Mainstays,” “Marketside,” “No Boundaries,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Ozark Trail,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Prima
Della,” “Puritan,” “Spring Valley” and “White Stag.” The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: “Better Homes & Gardens,” “Danskin Now,”
“Disney,” “General Electric,” “Just My Size,” “OP,” “Rival” and “Starter.”
The
percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended:
January 31,
STRATEGIC MERCHANDISE UNITS
2012
2011
Grocery
55
%
53
%
Entertainment
12
%
12
...
%
11
%
Health and wellness
11
%
11
...
100
%
Periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When
revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period’s presentation to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Hours of
operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats
vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card
issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events,
national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest
sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.
Competition.
The Walmart U.S.
segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog
businesses. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations
and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•
EDLP – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Save Even More – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s advertised price;
•
Store of the Community – a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
which that store is located; and
...
6
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our
customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2012, approximately 80% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of merchandise were shipped to the stores
through our distribution centers, which are located strategically throughout the United States. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our
private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our
Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2012, located strategically throughout the U.S. Of these 133 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. We owned and a third party operated
one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated the remaining 27 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain
items.
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment’s net sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, were $125.9 billion, $109.2 billion and $97.4 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit
accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa and 5 countries in Central America; our joint ventures in
China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. Walmart International operates units under approximately 70 banners in numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, websites, warehouse clubs,
restaurants, and apparel stores. Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer lending.
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL
SQUARE FEET
(1)
Africa
...
9,501
316
11,785
China
India
Japan
(2)
Mexico
United
Kingdom
Total
Walmart
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
5,651
328,887
(1)
“Square Feet” columns are reported in thousands. Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31 for fiscal
2012 through 2009. Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31 for fiscal 2012 through 2009. For fiscal 2008, all country balances are stated as of January 31, 2008.
(2)
All periods include the Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. The information for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and the
balance forward in the table excludes 23 Seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010.
7
Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 70 banners, represented
in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. Generally, retail centers range in size from 8,900 square feet to 110,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. Other,
including restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 4,200 square feet. Unit
counts
(1)
for Walmart International are as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
Total
...
—
2
316
China
364
6
—
370
India
—
15
—
...
—
52
419
Mexico
1,600
124
364
...
—
—
541
International Total
4,905
328
418
5,651
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2011 to correspond with the country’s balance sheet date.
(2)
Africa includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
(3)
Central America includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise
offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national
ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in Canada, Chile and Mexico, credit cards issued by
our subsidiaries. Limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and
global sourcing practices.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Historically, the segment’s highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31 and the segment’s lowest sales volume and operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending
April 30. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty
stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate restaurant chains and consumer finance operations. Our ability to offer our
customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates. EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including
high-growth or emerging markets. We are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP. Our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets
where we operate.
8
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 158 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic
products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2012, approximately 75% of the Walmart International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart
International segment’s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased and operated 68. Third
parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities.
Sam’s Club Segment
The Sam’s Club segment had net sales of $53.8 billion, $49.5 billion and $47.8 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most
recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a membership
club warehouse, facility sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise
and services online at
www.samsclub.com
.
SAM’S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
611
81,586
(1)
“Total” and “Square Feet” columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Merchandise.
Sam’s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected
private-label items such as “Member’s Mark” and three new proprietary brands, “Artisan Fresh,” “Daily Chef” and “Simply Right,” in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club
format.
(1)
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods,
candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
(2)
Fuel and other categories consist of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
(3)
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture and photo
processing;
(4)
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small
appliances; and
(5)
Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services and over-the-counter drugs.
9
The percentage of net sales for the Sam’s Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise
category, was as follows during the fiscal years ended:
January 31,
MERCHANDISE CATEGORY
2012
2011
Grocery and consumables
55
%
55
%
Fuel and other categories
24
%
23
%
Technology, office and entertainment
8
%
9
...
%
8
%
Health and wellness
5
%
5
...
%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.,
Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday,
starting at 7:00 a.m.
Sam’s Clubs are membership only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including
cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our
members’ health benefit plans.
Members include both business owners and individual consumers. Individual consumers are referred to as
Advantage Members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for Business
Members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, Business Members can add up to 8 business associates to their business account for $35 (plus
taxes, if applicable) each. Sam’s Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Members. The annual fee for a Plus Member (Business or Advantage) is $100 (plus taxes, if
applicable). In addition, Business Plus Members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as
different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur
during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.
Competition.
Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as
with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for
desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2012, approximately 63% of the Sam’s Club segment’s non-fuel purchases were shipped from the
Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution facilities and from some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club segment’s purchases directly to Sam’s Club
locations. As of January 31, 2012, our Sam’s Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8.
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities.
The principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution
operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours
in a cross-dock facility, sometimes less than an hour.
Sam’s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common
carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.
10
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 (“Annual Report to Shareholders”) under
the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 15 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included therein, which information is incorporated
herein by reference. Note 15 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales, as well as long-lived assets in the United States. Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Employees
As of
the end of fiscal 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 0.8 million associates
internationally. Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and experiences significant turnover in associates each year.
Through fiscal 2011, the Company maintained separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally became participants following one
year of employment. The profit sharing component was entirely funded by the Company, and the Company also made additional contributions to the 401(k) component of the plan. In addition to the Company’s contributions, associates could elect to
contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.
Effective February 1, 2011, the Company terminated the
previous profit sharing and 401(k) plans and offered new safe harbor 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Under the safe harbor
401(k) plans, the Company matches 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The matching contributions immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not
more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.
Contribution expense associated with these plans was $752 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010.
In addition, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance,
matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum
benefit for most expenses.
In our operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on
customary local practices and statutory requirements.
11
Executive Officers of the Registrant
...
Held Since
Age
Neil M. Ashe
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce beginning in January 2012. From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the
Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company. From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher. From October 2006 to June 2008, he served as Chief Executive Officer of
CNET Networks Inc., an Internet content company.
2012
44
Rosalind G. Brewer
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club, effective February 1, 2012. From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice
President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S. From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as
Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast. From October 2006 to February 2007, she served as regional vice president of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in Georgia.
2012
49
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
54
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
57
Michael T. Duke
President and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International.
2009
62
Rollin L. Ford
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. From May 2006 to January 2012, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to
April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.
2012
49
Jeffrey J. Gearhart
...
2010
55
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. From August 2005 to January 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and
Chief Executive Officer, Sam’s Club.
2009
45
William S. Simon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer,
Walmart U.S. From March 2006 to March 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Professional Services, Walmart U.S.
2010
52
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
67
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
52
12
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.walmartstores.com
. We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available
to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is
www.sec.gov
. Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and
Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com/investors
. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or
calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of
Walmart’s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.walmartstores.com
under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on
our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A
.
RISK FACTORS
The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that
apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax
rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam’s Club
segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher levels of unemployment,
inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United
States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our Walmart International segment.
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic
factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our
operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our
customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store
formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail
concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets,
other store formats, and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel
13
and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as
local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters
or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable
to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be
adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and
markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already
existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing
stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability
to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to
expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to
our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial
performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and
may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that
future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively
future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.
Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number
of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets,
prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor
or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many
other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty
stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale
grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety
and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club
14
operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Where necessary to
compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the
retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which
could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of
those products could adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified
as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located
and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems
experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transportation availability and cost, transportation security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers
and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the
importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could
adversely affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of
food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the
concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could
adversely affect our financial performance.
Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We currently conduct operations in 12 countries in Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, 5 countries in Central America, Japan, Mexico and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2012, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 28% of our net sales. As a result of our
expansion activities in countries outside the United States, we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other
countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and
regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could
adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other
activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our
Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the
United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions
due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
15
Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis,
weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in
which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or
more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of
the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers’ disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from
some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the
availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our
operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these
lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the
plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in June 2001 in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California, asserting that the Company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay,
back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees. On June 21, 2004, the U.S. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. As defined by the U.S. district court, the
class included “[a]ll women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to Wal-Mart’s challenged pay and management track promotions policies and
practices.” The Company appealed the order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequently to the United States Supreme Court. On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to
the district court. On October 27, 2011, the plaintiffs’ attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the Company’s California retail facilities, and the Company filed a Motion to
Dismiss on January 13, 2012. On October 28, 2011, the plaintiffs’ attorneys filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas entitled
Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, proposing a class of
current and former female associates at the Company’s Texas retail facilities and asserting claims and relief similar to those in the Dukes case. The Company filed a Motion to Dismiss on March 5, 2012. We discuss this case and other
litigation to which we are a party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 11 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders,
which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
16
If we do not maintain the security of information relating to our customers, associates and vendors,
security information breaches through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, and we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and
vendors. In addition, our online operations at
www.walmart.com
,
www.samsclub.com
and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless
payments. We maintain security measures with respect to such information, but despite these measures, we may be vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and others that attempt to penetrate the security measures that we have in place. A
compromise of our security systems (through cyber-attacks or otherwise which are rapidly evolving and sophisticated) that results in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we
expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run
our business.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of
individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power
outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by
our associates. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the
interim. Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information
technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although
we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand
for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services
our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes,
preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of
discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam’s Clubs located in each state and territory of the United States and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we
operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2012 Unit Count” and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to
Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
United States.
As of January 31, 2012, in the
U.S., we owned 3,381 of the buildings in which our discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and other small formats operated and 502 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on which our stores are located is either
owned or leased by the Company. We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.
17
In the United States, we lease the remaining 487 buildings our stores and 109 buildings our clubs operate
from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some
of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company’s store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in
rents.
Our 133 Walmart U.S. and 25 Sam’s Club distribution centers are located strategically throughout the United States. Of these 158
distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113 distribution facilities, we owned and a third party operated one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated 44 of our distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart
U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for certain items.
We own office facilities
in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.
Walmart International.
We operate our Walmart International segment stores, restaurants and banks in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our Walmart
International segment operates. As of the end of fiscal 2012, we owned 38 properties in Africa, 55 properties in Argentina, 186 properties in Brazil, 123 properties in Canada, 160 properties in Chile, 164 properties in Central America, 52 properties
in Japan, 646 properties in Mexico and 387 properties in the United Kingdom. The remaining 3,840 operating units are leased on terms that vary. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are
conducting business. As of the end of fiscal 2012, our Walmart International operations are supported by 158 distribution facilities. Of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased
and operated 68. Third parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities.
For further information on our distribution
centers, see the caption “Distribution” provided for each of our segments under “Item 1. Business.”
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled “Legal Proceedings,” which is referenced in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is incorporated by reference, and refer to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the
relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In
each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v.
WM
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 & 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/07/07; Supreme Court of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/09/11.
...
Odle v. WM
, USDC, Northern Dist. of TX, Dallas Div., 10/27/11.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following environmental matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement, as well as other matters.
Environmental:
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central
District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or
hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the
“RCRA”), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the
Company’s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous
waste” directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) subsequently
joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and
regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
...
In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the
“USACE”) was concerned about alleged violations of a permit issued by that agency in 2003, for the fill of 0.23 acres of a creek and its contiguous wetlands during the construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico. On
January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to these issues in writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto Rico filed a formal
response, implemented mitigation measures, and continues to monitor and provide the required maintenance to the mitigation area. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a
material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of
Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (the “Department”) alleging various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company
had contracted for recycling services. The Department alleged that the Company provided certain items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. The Company has resolved the issues with the Department by
entering into a settlement agreement which includes payment of a $214,378 penalty and an agreement to implement a supplemental environmental project valued at $1,050,000 to help local residents properly manage household hazardous wastes. The EPA
inspected the contractor’s facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri are conducting investigations. The Company is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict
the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
...
management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
In July 2011, the Environmental Patrol and the Environmental Department for Bento Goncalves Municipality, Brazil, notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil
Ltda that they are investigating alleged soil contamination involving a leaking subsoil oil duct at a store site. To resolve this, the Environmental Department for the municipality proposed a plan which includes a penalty of R$168,570 (approximately
$96,000) or an agreement to donate certain items and services to the City in lieu of the penalty. The Environmental Department is also investigating alleged soil contamination from wastewater at the same store. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is
cooperating with the agencies. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
Other:
During fiscal 2012, the Company began conducting a voluntary internal review of its policies, procedures and internal controls pertaining
to its global anti-corruption compliance program. As a result of information obtained during that review and from other sources, the Company has begun an internal investigation into whether certain matters, including permitting, licensing and
inspections, were in compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company has engaged outside counsel and other advisors to assist in the review of these matters and has implemented, and is continuing to implement, appropriate
remedial measures. The Company has voluntarily disclosed its internal investigation to the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission. We cannot reasonably estimate the potential liability, if any, related to these
matters. However, based on the facts currently known, we do not believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions “Market
price of common stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 22, 2012, the latest
practicable date, there were 275,525 common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, the Company has repurchased shares of its common
stock under a $15.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on June 3, 2010 and announced on June 4, 2010. On June 2, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors replaced that share repurchase program,
which had approximately $2.1 billion of remaining authorization for share repurchases as of that date, with a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program, announced on June 3, 2011. As a result, the Company terminated and will make no further
share repurchases under the program announced on June 4, 2010. Consistent with the replaced share repurchase program, the new program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which the Company can make share
repurchases and will expire only when and if the Company has repurchased $15.0 billion of its shares under the newly authorized program or it earlier terminates or is replaced by a newly authorized program. Any repurchased shares are constructively
retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program was as follows during the three
months ended January 31, 2012:
Fiscal
Period
...
Shares
Purchased
Average
Price Paid
per
Share
Total
...
22,888,361
22,888,361
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Five-Year Financial Summary” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,”
“Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and “Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to
management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal
control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes. In fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new financial system in stages and, to date, have completed implementations
in Argentina, Canada, Japan, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States. The new financial system is a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages,
and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.
An evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management,
...
specified by the SEC’s rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions “Management’s Report to Our Shareholders” and
“Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Except for the ongoing system implementation noted above, there has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, that has materially
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial
owners of the Company’s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board” and
“Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 1, 2012 (our “Proxy Statement”).
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive
Officers of the Registrant,” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement
relating to our 2011 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
21
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts, and our
Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions “Information About the Board—Board Committees,” “Corporate
Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Corporate Governance—Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers” included in our Proxy Statement. “Item 1. Business” above contains information
relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers on
our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions “Information About the Board – Compensation of the Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and under the sub-captions
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions “Holdings of Major
Shareholders” and “Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy
Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions,” under the caption “Corporate
Governance—Transaction Review Policy” and under the caption “Information About the Board—Director Independence” included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
...
(a) (1) and (2)
Consolidated Financial Statements
The financial statements
listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
22
Annual
Report to
Shareholders
(page)
Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012
21
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2012 and 2011
22
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2012
23
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2012
24
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012
25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
26
...
49
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
50
Management’s Report to Our Shareholders
51
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
23
(3)
...
4
(c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston
and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4
(d)
...
Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).
+10
(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
+10
(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a
part of the Company’s Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2008.
+10
(c)
...
Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10
(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10
(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company’s Schedule 14A filed on
April 19, 2010.
+10
(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10
(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10
(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
25
+10(l)
...
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated Effective June 4, 2010 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10(o)
Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and H. Lee Scott, Jr., dated November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
...
Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Thomas M. Schoewe, dated September 28, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the
Company dated September 29, 2010.
+10(r)
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated
September 29, 2011.
+10(s)
Retirement Agreement between Eduardo Castro-Wright and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dated September 23, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K of
...
*12
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
*13
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company’s Significant Subsidiaries.
...
26
101.SCH
**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL
**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF
**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB
**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE
**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 27, 2012
By
/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.
...
(Principal Accounting Officer)
DATE: March 27, 2012
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 27, 2012
By
[Total relevant lines: 1027]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2012 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2013-03-26.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer
...
ý
As o
f July 31, 2012, th
e aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2012, was $123,286,859,792. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,292,443,366 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 22, 2013.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2013 (the "Annual Report to Shareholders") included as exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 7, 2013 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act.
The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our expected results of operations and our forecasts of certain financial results for certain periods, including our sales, the sales of one or more of our operating segments, our earnings per share for certain periods, our comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one of our operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, our effective annual tax rate, the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, opening of certain numbers of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, our forecasts for the increase in square footage in our various operating segments and in countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in expected sales of certain categories of products, our ability to leverage best practices, lessons from multiple formats and global sourcing practices, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, our need to repatriate cash held offshore of the United States, the outcome of litigation and other legal proceedings to which we are subject and the costs we may incur in connection therewith, the effect of economic developments on our customers, our operations and our results of operations, and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement.  Such forward-looking statements include statements made in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition or results of operations.  Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "guidance," "plan," "projected," "will be," "will continue," "will change," "will decrease," "will have," "will increase," and "will remain," or words or other phrases commencing with the word "will," or words or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, which are outside our control.  Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales or comparable club sales and effective tax rate for any period, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals or objectives.  These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or other specific markets in which we operate, economic instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises and disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment and partial employment levels, employment conditions within our markets, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer credit availability, consumer spending patterns, consumer debt levels, consumer preferences, the timing of receipt of tax refund checks by consumers, inflation, deflation, commodity prices, the cost of the goods we sell, competitive pressures, the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our other markets, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the selling prices of fuel, the cost of healthcare and other benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, availability of qualified labor pools in the specific markets in which we operate, zoning, land use and other regulatory restrictions, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather conditions patterns and events, climate change, catastrophic events and natural disasters, as well as storm and other damage to our stores, clubs, distribution centers and other facilities and store closings and other limitations on our customers' access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events and disasters, disruption in the availability of our online shopping sites on the internet, cyberattacks on our information systems, disruption in our supply chain, including availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in corporate and personal tax rates and the imposition of new taxes and surcharges, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the mix of our earnings from our United States and foreign operations,
2
changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items on our effective tax rate, the resolution of other tax matters, developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject and the expenses associated therewith, currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility, fluctuations in market rates of interest, and other conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets, public health emergencies, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks.  Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns.  Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.  The accuracy of the forecast of the range of our effective tax rate for any year can be affected by other factors, including changes in assessments of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among the Company's United States and international operations.
The foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance is not exclusive.  Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.  Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss below under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, as well as other risks not known to us at this time, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
3
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") operates retail stores in various formats under 69 banners around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better.  We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP") while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity.  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis.  Our discussion includes the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2013 ("fiscal 2013"), January 31, 2012 ("fiscal 2012") and January 31, 2011 ("fiscal 2011").  During fiscal 2013, we generated total revenues of $469.2 billion, which included net sales of
$466.1 billion
.
Our operations comprise three reportable business segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.
Currently, Walmart U.S. is the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately
59%
of our fiscal
2013
net sales, and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as its online retail operations, walmart.com.
Walmart International consists of retail operations in 26 countries and generated approximately
29%
of our fiscal
2013
net sales.  The Walmart International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, wholesale clubs, including Sam's Clubs, and various retail websites that operate outside the U.S.
Sam's Club consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as the segment's online retail operations, samsclub.com.  The Sam's Club segment accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2013
net sales.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1984, we opened our first three Sam's Clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has continued to expand and at January 31,
2013
, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 26 countries.
Our Business Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail stores located throughout the U.S.; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America, Chile, China and Mexico; its joint ventures in India and China; and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  The Company defines its reportable segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.
The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company's mass merchant concept in the U.S., operating under the "Walmart" or "Wal-Mart" brand, as well as walmart.com.  The Walmart International segment consists of the Company's operations outside of the U.S., including various retail websites.  The Sam's Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's operating income, which we calculate by including certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When we do so, the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
4
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$274.5 billion
,
$264.2 billion
...
2012
and
2011
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 44 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in 25 states and Puerto Rico.  Supercenters range in size from 70,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 181,000 square feet.  Discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 105,000 square feet.  Neighborhood Markets and other small formats range in size from 1,000 square feet to 66,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 39,000 square feet.  From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.walmart.com
.
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
RETAIL UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
Walmart U.S.
Discount Stores
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
)
561
59,098
Walmart U.S.
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
4,005
640,733
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores to supercenters.
5
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs;
•
Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;
•
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
•
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home décor, outdoor living and horticulture.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual sales.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including: "Canopy," "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Prima Della," "Puritan," "Spring Valley" and "White Stag."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Danskin Now," "Disney," "General Electric," "Just My Size," "OP," "Rival" and "Starter."
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
STRATEGIC MERCHANDISE UNITS
2013
2012
2011
Grocery
55%
55%
53%
Entertainment
11%
12%
12%
Health and wellness
11%
11%
11%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period's presentation to maintain comparability.
6
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets, are 24 hours each day.  Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.  We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal.  In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climates.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  We also compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Save Even More / Ad Match – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Store of the Community – a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and
•
Clean, Fast and Friendly – our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2013
, approximately 81% of the Walmart U.S. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise is transported primarily through our private truck fleet.  However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of January 31,
2013
.  Of these 133 facilities, we owned and operated 104.  We owned and third parties operated two facilities, and we leased and operated one facility.  Third parties owned and operated the remaining 26 facilities.  In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution facilities also service our Sam's Club segment for certain items.
7
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment's net sales for fiscal
2013
,
2012
...
$125.9 billion
and
$109.2 billion
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), Chile, China and Mexico; our joint ventures in China and India; and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.
Walmart International operates units in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, retail websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants and apparel stores.  Generally, retail centers range in size from 5,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet.  Other, which includes restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size up to 4,200 square feet.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at various websites we operate.  Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs.
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT
(1)
AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(2)
Africa
Argentina
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
9,873
329
12,671
China
India
(3)
Japan
(4)
Mexico
United
Kingdom
Total Walmart
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
6,148
348,328
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of January 31, 2008.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
Does not include franchised retail stores in India, which are owned and operated by Bharti Retail.
(4)
All periods include the Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size.  The information for the balance forward and for fiscal 2009 excludes 23 Seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010.
8
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31,
2013
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
—
2
329
China
385
8
—
393
India
(5)
—
20
...
—
66
438
Mexico
1,840
142
371
...
451
6,148
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2012
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31, 2013.
(2)
"Other" includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under varying banners in Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
12
), Ghana (
1
...
1
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
205
), El Salvador (
80
...
79
).
(5)
In India, the business is operated as a cash and carry business.  Retail units in India are franchised and are owned and operated by Bharti Retail.
9
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart International segment operates.  In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in Canada, Chile and Mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries.  Limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.  Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climates.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate.  We also operate restaurant chains and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units.  Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates.  EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including high-growth or emerging markets.  We are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 160 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the U.S.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2013
, approximately 82% of the Walmart International segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate.  Of these 160 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 41, we owned and third parties operated 11, and we leased and operated 67.  Third parties leased and operated the remaining 41 distribution facilities.
10
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment had net sales of
$56.4 billion
,
$53.8 billion
...
2012
and
2011
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Sam's Clubs are membership only operations.  Members include both business owners and individual consumers.  Individual consumers are referred to as Advantage Members.  The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost.  The annual membership fee for Business Members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost.  In addition, Business Members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 each.  Sam's Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Members.  The annual fee for a Business or Advantage Plus Member is $100.  In addition, Business Plus Members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 each.  Taxes, if applicable, are added to all membership fees.
As a membership club warehouse, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet.  Sam's Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at
www.samsclub.com
.
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
620
82,653
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
11
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "Member's Mark" and its own proprietary brands, "Artisan Fresh," "Bakers & Chef," "Daily Chef" and "Simply Right," in five merchandise categories, listed below.
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture and photo processing;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs.
The percentage of net sales for the Sam's Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
MERCHANDISE CATEGORY
2013
2012
2011
Grocery and consumables
55%
55%
55%
Fuel and other categories
24%
24%
23%
Technology, office and entertainment
8%
8%
9%
...
8%
8%
8%
Health and wellness
5%
5%
5%
...
100%
12
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider.  In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members' health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam's Club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climates.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  Sam's Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.  Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food products to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2013
, approximately 64% of the Sam's Club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam's Club segment's dedicated distribution facilities or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  As of January 31,
2013
, our Sam's Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States.  Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated eight.  We owned and a third party operated two facilities.  Third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities.  Additionally, some of the Walmart U.S. distribution facilities also service our Sam's Club segment for certain items.
The principal focus of our Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
13
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2013
("Annual Report to Shareholders") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 14 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  Note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2013
, the Company and its subsidiaries employed nearly 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with more than 1.3 million associates in the U.S. and more than 0.8 million associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders in Note 12 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam's Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S.  The Company's medical plan in the U.S. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
Similarly, in our operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
14
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Neil M. Ashe
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce, beginning in January 2012.  From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company.  From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher.  From October 2006 to June 2008, he served as Chief Executive Officer of CNET Networks Inc., an Internet content company.
2012
45
Rosalind G. Brewer
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2012.  From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S.  From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast.  From October 2006 to February 2007, she served as regional vice president of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in Georgia.
2012
50
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
55
Leslie A. Dach
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs.  From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.
2006
58
Michael T. Duke
President and Chief Executive Officer.  From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International.
2009
63
Rollin L. Ford
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer.  From May 2006 to January 2012, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.
2012
50
Jeffrey J. Gearhart
...
2010
56
C. Douglas McMillon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.  From August 2005 to January 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.
2009
46
William S. Simon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S.  From March 2006 to March 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Professional Services, Walmart U.S.
2010
53
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
1992
68
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
53
15
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at
www.corporate.walmart.com
.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is
www.sec.gov
.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.stock.walmart.com
.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.stock.walmart.com
under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
16
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  These risks are not the only risks that we face.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  In the U.S., higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam's Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory.  Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the U.S.  These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our Walmart International segment.
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may face impediments to our expansion in the U.S., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the U.S. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.  Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam's Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states.  Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters.  If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam's Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected.  In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
17
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations.  In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam's Clubs, not previously operated in those markets.  As in the U.S., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units.  In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods.  Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.  If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
18
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive.  Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers.  Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses.  Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price.  Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale.  Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance.  See "Item 1. Business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.  Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.  In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
19
Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America, Chile, China and Mexico; our joint ventures in India and China; and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  During fiscal
2013
, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
29%
of our consolidated net sales.  As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan or Superstorm Sandy in the U.S. in 2012, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.
20
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in June 2001 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, asserting that the Company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees.  On June 21, 2004, the U.S. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs' motion for class certification.  As defined by the U.S. district court, the class included "[a]ll women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to Wal-Mart's challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices."  The Company appealed the order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequently to the U.S. Supreme Court.  On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court.  On October 27, 2011, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the Company's California retail facilities, and the Company filed a motion to dismiss on January 13, 2012.  On September 21, 2012, the court denied the motion.  On
October 28, 2011
, the attorneys for the plaintiffs in the
Dukes
case filed a similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas entitled
Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in any Walmart region that includes stores located in the state of Texas.  On October 15, 2012, the court in the
Odle
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations and the individual claims of the lead plaintiff, Stephanie Odle.  On October 2, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee entitled
Phipps v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc
., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 43, centered in Middle and Western Tennessee."  On February 20, 2013, the court in the
Phipps
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, and dismissed the plaintiffs' class action allegations with prejudice.  On October 4, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, entitled
Love v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc
., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in certain designated stores and clubs in regions centered in the state of Florida.  On October 25, 2012, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Florida complaint.  Finally, on February 20, 2013, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, entitled
Ladik v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 14, which includes Wal-Mart retail stores located in parts of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana and Michigan."  On March 15, 2013, the Company filed its motion to dismiss the Wisconsin complaint.  We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
21
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct.  We are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for FCPA compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.  Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC, and we have been informed by the DOJ and the SEC that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the FCPA.  A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review.  Moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (in addition to the $157 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2013) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers.  These matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues.  While we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our Global eCommerce business, could be adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us over our merchandising websites, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  In addition, we offer a "site-to-store" program under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Any failure on our part to provide the necessary technological interfaces with our merchandising programs, including user friendly software applications for smart phones and tablets, could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of online and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have an adverse impact on the growth of our Global eCommerce business and negatively affect our results of operations.
22
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could adversely affect our operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  In addition, our online operations at
www.walmart.com
,
www.samsclub.com
and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.  Each year, computer hackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  We maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information.  As a result of those measures, the past attempts by computer hackers to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful.  Nevertheless, it is possible that computer hackers and others (through cyberattacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means) might defeat our security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold.  Such an occurrence could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. Moreover, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems.  Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
23
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam's Clubs located in each state or territory of the United States and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31,
2013
in the part of our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Unit Counts as of January 31,
2013
" that is an exhibit hereto and that information is incorporated herein by reference.
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2013
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
3,480
—
525
—
4,005
Sam's Club retail units
511
—
109
—
620
Total U.S. retail units
3,991
—
634
—
4,625
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
104
2
1
26
133
Sam's Club distribution facilities
8
2
—
15
25
Total U.S. distribution facilities
112
4
1
...
635
41
4,783
International properties
Africa
37
—
...
133
—
329
China
2
—
391
—
393
India
(1)
2
—
...
378
—
438
Mexico
724
—
1,629
...
167
—
565
Total International retail units
1,995
—
4,153
—
6,148
International distribution facilities
41
11
67
41
160
Total International properties
2,036
11
4,220
41
6,308
Total retail units
5,986
—
4,787
—
10,773
Total distribution facilities
153
15
68
...
82
11,091
(1)
Does not include franchised retail stores in India, which are owned and operated by Bharti Retail.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. for operations and field management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "Item 1. Business."
24
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is one of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference.  We refer to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/7/07; Supreme Court of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/9/11.
Gender Discrimination Class Actions:
...
USDC, Southern Dist. of FL, Ft. Lauderdale Div., 10/4/12;
Ladik v. Wal-Mart
, USDC, Western Dist. of WI, 2/20/13.
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in the
New York Times (
the
"
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former officers and directors as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of FCPA compliance.  Most, but not all, of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which is currently pending in the Western District of Arkansas and the other in Delaware Court of Chancery.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR, Fayetteville Div, 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
, USDC, Western Dist. of Arkansas, 5/31/12; (consolidation of six separately-filed suits);
Emory v. Duke, et al.
, USDC, Western Dist. of Arkansas, 4/26/12;
...
Delaware Court of Chancery, 4/25/12 (consolidation of seven separately-filed suits).
25
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.
On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company's receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the "RCRA"), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney's Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the Company's stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as "hazardous waste" directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney's Office in the Northern District of California and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") subsequently joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (the "Department") alleging various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company had contracted for recycling services. The Department alleged that the Company provided certain items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. As reported previously, the Company has resolved these issues with the Department. However, the EPA also has inspected the contractor's facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Western District of Missouri are now conducting investigations. The Company is cooperating with these authorities. Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda, a subsidiary of the Company, of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation. Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In July 2011, the Environmental Department of Bento Gonçalves Municipality notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda that it is investigating alleged soil contamination from wastewater at a store. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is cooperating with the agency and monitoring the affected area. Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
On September 24, 2012, the Office of the District Attorney for Riverside County, California, notified the Company that it had identified potential violations of California laws regarding electronic monitors used in conjunction with underground storage tanks at a Sam's Club fuel station. The Company is cooperating with the County's investigation. Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions "Market price of common stock," "Listing" and "Dividends paid per share" in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange.  At March 22,
2013
, the latest practicable date, there were
263,499
common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, the Company has repurchased shares of its common stock under a
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on June 2, 2011 and announced on June 3, 2011.  This share repurchase program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases and will expire only when and if the Company has repurchased
$15.0 billion
of its shares under the authorized program or it earlier terminates or is replaced by a newly authorized program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program for each of the three months ended January 31,
2013
, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
42,288,364
42,288,364
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
27
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.  In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures.  Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.  Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.  Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes.  We are currently implementing a new financial system in stages and, to date, have completed implementations in Argentina, Canada, Japan, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States.  The new financial system is a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.  We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages, and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.  Additionally, during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, we began establishing shared service functions and processes on a global scale.  The implementation of our global shared services is in the beginning stages, and we believe the related changes to processes and internal controls will allow us to be more efficient and further enhance our internal control over financial reporting.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period covered by this report.  This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  The evaluation is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company's internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Management's Report to Our Shareholders" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting," respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Except for the ongoing implementation of the financial system and global shared services functions noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31,
2013
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled "Information About the Board" and "Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 7,
2013
(our "Proxy Statement").
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant," which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC's Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our
2012
Annual Shareholders' Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions "Information About the Board—Board Committees," "Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts" and "Corporate Governance—Board and Committee Governing Documents" included in our Proxy Statement.  "Item 1. Business" above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Information About the Board – Compensation of the Directors," "Executive Compensation" and under the sub-captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation Committee Report" that appear under the caption "Corporate Governance" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" that appear under the caption "Stock Ownership" and all information that appears under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption "Corporate Governance—Related Person Transactions," under the caption "Corporate Governance—Transaction Review Policy" and under the caption "Information About the Board—Director Independence" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
...
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:
1.     Financial Statements:
See the listing of Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
2.     Financial Statement Schedules:
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit.
(b)    Financial Statement Schedules
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 26, 2013
By
/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.
...
32
DATE: March 26, 2013
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 26, 2013
By
...
4 (b)
Form of Indenture dated as of August 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen's Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).
4 (c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4 (d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).
4 (e)
...
First Supplemental Indenture, dated December 1, 2006, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).
35
+10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
+10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2008.
+10(c)
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective June 4, 2010, are incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 19, 2010.
+10(d)
...
+10(f)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 19, 2010.
+10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
+10(l)
Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
+10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated effective June 4, 2010 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
+10(o)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
36
+10(p)
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
+10(q)
Retirement Agreement between Eduardo Castro-Wright and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dated September 23, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated and filed September 27, 2011.
*12
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
*13
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013.  All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 is filed with the SEC.  The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
*21
List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries.
*23
...
101.INS**
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE**+
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
[Total relevant lines: 877]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2013 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2014-03-21.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f July 31, 2013, th
e aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2013, was $124,752,718,081. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,229,175,401 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 18, 2014
.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2014 (the "Annual Report to Shareholders") included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 6, 2014 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
2
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act.
The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our expected results of operations and our forecasts of certain financial results for certain periods, including our sales, the net sales of one or more of our operating segments, our expenses in various categories, our earnings per share for certain periods, our comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one of our operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, our effective annual tax rate, the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure and opening of certain numbers of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, our forecasts for the increase in square footage in our various operating segments and in countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our plans for integrating newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success of various operating initiatives, our plans for increasing our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in expected sales of certain categories of products, our plans for leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple formats and global sourcing practices, our liquidity and plans for accessing the capital markets, our need to repatriate cash held offshore of the United States, the outcome of litigation and other legal proceedings to which we are subject and the costs we may incur in connection therewith,  and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement.  Such forward-looking statements include statements made in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "guidance," "plan," "projected," "projections," "will be," "will continue," "will change," "will decrease," "will have," "will increase," and "will remain," or words or other phrases commencing with the word "will," or words or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, which are outside our control.  Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales or comparable club sales and effective tax rate for any period, our business operations, business strategy, plans, goals or objectives.  These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or other specific markets in which we operate, economic instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises and disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment and partial employment levels, employment conditions within our markets, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer credit availability, consumer spending patterns, consumer debt levels, consumer preferences, including consumer demand for the merchandise we offer for sale, the timing of consumers' receipt of tax refund checks, changes in the amount of payments made under the Supplement Nutrition Assistance Plan and other public assistance plans, changes in the eligibility requirements of public assistance plans, inflation, deflation, commodity prices, the cost of the goods we sell, competitive pressures, the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our other markets, anticipated store or club closures, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the selling prices of fuel, the cost of healthcare and other benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability and the cost of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other units, availability of qualified labor pools in the specific markets in which we operate, including the availability of persons with the skills and abilities necessary to meet Walmart's needs for managing and staffing its new units and conducting their operations, real estate, zoning, land use and other laws, ordinances, legal restrictions and initiatives that may prevent Walmart from building, or that impose limitations on Walmart's ability to build, new units in certain locations or relocate or expand existing units, availability of necessary utilities for new units, availability of skilled labor and labor, material and other construction costs in areas in which new or relocated units are proposed to be constructed or existing units are proposed to be expanded or remodeled, competitive pressures and the initiatives of our competitors, accident-related costs, weather conditions patterns and events, climate change, catastrophic events and natural disasters, as well as storm
3
and other damage to our stores, clubs, distribution centers and other facilities and store closings and other limitations on our customers' access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events and disasters, disruption in the availability of our online shopping sites on the internet, cyberattacks on our information systems, disruption in our supply chain, including availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in corporate and personal tax rates and the imposition of new taxes and surcharges, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the mix of our earnings from our United States and foreign operations, changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases or decreases in valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items on our effective tax rate, the resolution of other tax matters, developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject and the expenses associated therewith, the requirements for expenditures in connection with the FCPA-related matters, including enhancements to Walmart's compliance program and ongoing investigations; changes in the rating of any of our indebtedness; currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility, fluctuations in market rates of interest, and other conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets, public health emergencies, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks, unanticipated changes in generally accepted accounting principles or in the interpretations or applicability thereof, unanticipated changes in accounting estimates and judgments, and unanticipated restructurings and the related expenses.  Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns.  Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.  The accuracy of the forecast of the range of our effective tax rate for any year can be affected by other factors, including changes in assessments of certain tax contingencies, increases or decreases in valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among the Company's United States and international operations.
The foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance is not exclusive.  Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.  Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss below under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and may discuss in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, as well as other risks not known to us at this time, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
4
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores, online, and through their mobile devices.    We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"), while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity.  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.
Our operations comprise three reportable business segments:  Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2014 ("fiscal 2014"), January 31, 2013 ("fiscal 2013") and January 31, 2012 ("fiscal 2012").  During fiscal 2014, we generated total revenues of $
476 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$473 billion
.
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the U.S., Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, as well as its online retail operations, walmart.com.  Walmart U.S. generated approximately
59%
of our net sales in fiscal
2014
and, of our three segments, historically has had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"), and contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Walmart International consists of the Company's operations in 26 countries outside of the U.S. and its operations include numerous formats of retail stores, wholesale clubs, including Sam's Clubs, restaurants, banks and various retail websites.  Walmart International generated approximately
29%
of our fiscal
2014
net sales.  The overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. because of the margin impact from its merchandise mix.  Walmart International has generally been our most rapidly growing segment, growing primarily through new stores and acquisitions and, in recent years, has been growing its net sales and operating income at a faster rate than our other segments.  However, for fiscal 2014, Walmart International sales growth slowed due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, as well as no significant acquisitions, and operating income declined as a result of certain operating expenses.
Sam's Club consists of warehouse membership clubs and operates in 48 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico, as well as its online operations, samsclub.com.  Sam's Club accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2014
net sales.  Sam's Club operates as a warehouse membership club with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1984, we opened our first three Sam's Clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has continued to expand and at January 31,
2014
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 26 countries.
5
Information About Our Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of:  retail stores and membership clubs located throughout the U.S.; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America, Chile, China and Mexico; and its joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  The Company defines its reportable segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.
The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company's mass merchant concept in the U.S. operating under the "Walmart" or "Wal-Mart" brands, as well as walmart.com.  The Walmart International segment consists of the Company's operations outside of the U.S., including various retail websites.  The Sam's Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com.  Corporate and support consists of corporate overhead and other items not allocated to any of our segments.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$279.4 billion
,
$274.4 billion
...
2013
and
2012
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in 48 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 43 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in 31 states and Puerto Rico.  Supercenters range in size from 70,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 179,000 square feet.  Discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 105,000 square feet.  Neighborhood Markets and other small formats range in size up to 66,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 40,000 square feet.  From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com.
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
RETAIL UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
Walmart U.S.
Discount Stores
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
)
508
53,496
Walmart U.S.
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
4,203
659,132
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
6
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs;
•
Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;
•
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
•
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home décor, outdoor living and horticulture.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Price First," "Prima Della," "Sam's Choice," "Spring Valley" and "White Stag."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Danskin Now," "Disney," "General Electric," "OP," "Rival" and "Starter."
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
STRATEGIC MERCHANDISE UNITS
2014
2013
2012
Grocery
56%
55%
55%
Entertainment
11%
11%
12%
Health and wellness
10%
11%
11%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period's presentation to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets, are 24 hours each day.  Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.  We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal.  In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
7
Competition.
The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  We also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
Rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Save Even More and Ad Match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Store of the Community: a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and
•
Clean, Fast and Friendly: our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2014
, approximately 80% of the Walmart U.S. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise is transported primarily through our private truck fleet.  However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.
Our Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 132 distribution facilities, including return facilities and e-commerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31,
2014
.  Of these 132 facilities, we owned and operated 102.  We owned and third parties operated two facilities, and we leased and operated three facilities.  Third parties owned and operated the remaining 25 facilities.  In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution facilities also service our Sam's Club segment for certain items.
8
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment's net sales for fiscal
2014
,
2013
...
$134.7 billion
and
$125.4 billion
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), Chile, China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.
Walmart International operates units in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, retail websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores.  Generally, retail units range in size from 5,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet.  Other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom, range in size up to 4,200 square feet.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at various websites we operate.  Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs.
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT
(1)
AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(2)
Africa
Argentina
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
10,427
380
13,697
China
India
Japan
(3)
Mexico
(4)
United
Kingdom
Total Walmart
International
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
6,107
358,207
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of January 31, 2009.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
...
(4)
All periods presented exclude units and square feet for the Vips restaurant business, which is classified as discontinued operations as of January 31, 2014.  The Company has entered into an agreement to sell the operations of the Vips restaurant business, subject to regulatory approval.
9
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31,
2014
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
2
27
380
China
395
10
—
405
India
—
20
—
...
—
64
438
Mexico
(5)
2,033
156
...
115
6,107
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2013
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31,
2014
.
(2)
"Other" includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under varying banners in Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
1
...
1
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
214
), El Salvador (
83
...
80
).
(5)
Mexico unit counts exclude 360 units of the Vips restaurant business classified as discontinued operations as of January 31, 2014.  The Company has entered into an agreement to sell the operations of the Vips restaurant business, subject to regulatory approval.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart International segment operates.  In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers and credit cards issued by our subsidiaries in Canada, Chile and Mexico.  Limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.  Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging our best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate.  We also operate some restaurants and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units.  Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates.  We believe EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets and we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
151
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2014
, approximately 80% of the Walmart International segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate.  Of these
151
distribution facilities, we owned and operated
42
, we owned and third parties operated
11
, and we leased and operated
62
.  Third parties leased and operated the remaining
36
distribution facilities.
10
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment had net sales of
$57.2 billion
,
$56.4 billion
...
2013
and
2012
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
General.
Sam's Clubs are membership only operations.  Members include both business owners and individual consumers.  Individual consumers are referred to as Savings Members (formerly Advantage Members).  The annual membership fee for an individual Savings Member is $45 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost.  The annual membership fee for Business Members is $45 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost.  In addition, Business Members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $45 each.  Sam's Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Savings Members.  The annual fee for a Business or Savings Plus Member (formerly Advantage Plus Members) is $100.  In addition, Business Plus Members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $45 each.  Taxes, if applicable, are added to all membership fees.
As a membership club warehouse, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.  Sam's Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com.
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
632
84,382
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "Member's Mark" and its own proprietary brands, "Artisan Fresh," "Bakers & Chef," "Daily Chef" and "Simply Right," in five merchandise categories, listed below.
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
11
The percentage of net sales for the Sam's Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
MERCHANDISE CATEGORY
2014
2013
2012
Grocery and consumables
56%
55%
55%
Fuel and other categories
23%
24%
24%
...
8%
8%
8%
Technology, office and entertainment
8%
8%
8%
Health and wellness
5%
5%
5%
...
100%
100%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Business Members and Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider.  In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members' health benefit plans.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam's Club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers, gasoline stations and catalog businesses.  Sam's Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Savings and Business members.  Our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2014
, approximately 64% of the Sam's Club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam's Club segment's dedicated distribution facilities or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  As of January 31,
2014
, our Sam's Club segment operations were supported by
23
distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States.  Of these
23
distribution facilities, we owned and operated
eight
.  Third parties owned and operated the remaining
15
distribution facilities.  Additionally, some of the Walmart U.S. distribution facilities also service our Sam's Club segment for certain items.
The principal focus of our Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
12
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2014
("Annual Report to Shareholders") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 14 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  Note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2014
, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly 1.4 million associates in the U.S. and 0.8 million associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders in Note 12 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam's Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S.  The Company's medical plan in the U.S. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
Similarly, in the operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
13
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Neil M. Ashe
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce, beginning in January 2012.  From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company.  From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher.
2012
46
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, beginning in June 2013.  From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.  He previously served in the White House from 2001 to 2007 as Counselor to the President and Communications Director.
2013
42
Rosalind G. Brewer
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2012.  From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S.  From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast.
2012
51
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
56
David Cheesewright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.  From September 2011 to January 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for Walmart International's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Canada region.  From February 2008 to September 2011, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart Canada.
2014
51
Michael T. Duke
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.  He is the former President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., serving in that position from February 2009 to January 2014.
2014
64
Rollin L. Ford
...
2010
57
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
47
William S. Simon
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S.
2010
54
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
54
14
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.corporate.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers or our Statement of Ethics will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
15
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  These risks are not the only risks that we face.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory.  Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the U.S.  These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results.
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, e-commerce retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our e-commerce businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  A critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. These factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for  purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, e-commerce offerings or through a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
16
We may face impediments to our expansion in the U.S., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy in the U.S. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the U.S. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.  Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam's Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states.  Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters.  If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam's Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected.  In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations.  In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam's Clubs, not previously operated in those markets.  As in the U.S., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units.  In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods.  Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.  If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
17
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, e-commerce retail or through a combination of both areas), which could adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive.  Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers.  Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses.  Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses.  Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price.  Where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale.  Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance.  See "Item 1. Business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.  Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.  In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
18
Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa, Central America, Chile, China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  During fiscal
2014
, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
29%
of our consolidated net sales.  As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
19
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, Superstorm Sandy in the U.S. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the U.S. in 2013 and 2014, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we are a defendant in
Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in June 2001 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, asserting that the Company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees.  On June 21, 2004, the U.S. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs' motion for class certification.  As defined by the U.S. district court, the class included "[a]ll women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to Wal-Mart's challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices."  The Company appealed the order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequently to the United States Supreme Court.  On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court.  On October 27, 2011, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the Company's California retail facilities, and the Company filed a motion to dismiss on January 13, 2012.  On September 21, 2012, the court denied the motion.  The plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on April 15, 2013.  On August 2, 2013, the court denied the motion.  On August 16, 2013, the plaintiffs filed a petition for permission to appeal that ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  On November 18, 2013, the Ninth Circuit denied that petition.  On October 28, 2011, the attorneys for the plaintiffs in the
Dukes
case filed a similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas entitled
Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in any Walmart region that includes stores located in the state of Texas.  On October 15, 2012, the court in the
Odle
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations and the individual claims of the lead plaintiff, Stephanie Odle.  On March 19, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal.  On October 2, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee entitled
Phipps v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc
., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 43, centered in Middle and Western Tennessee."  On February 20, 2013, the court in the
Phipps
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  On September 11, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit granted the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal that ruling.  On October 4, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida entitled
Love v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc
., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in certain designated stores and clubs in regions centered in the state of Florida.  On September 23, 2013, the court in
20
the
Love
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  Finally, on February 20, 2013, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin, entitled
Ladik v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "Region 14, which includes Wal-Mart retail stores located in parts of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana and Michigan."  On May 24, 2013, the court in the
Ladik
case granted the Company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations.  On June 13, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal.  We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct.  We are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for FCPA compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.  Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC, and we have been informed by the DOJ and the SEC that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the FCPA.  A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review.  Moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $282 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2014) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers.  These matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues.  While we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse affect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
21
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us over our merchandising websites, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer a "site-to-store" program under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly online merchandising platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of online and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store certain personal information about our customers in our information systems, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  We also utilize use third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.  In addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. Each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. We maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us. As a result of these measures and our monitoring processes and procedures, we believe that past attempts by computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful.  Nevertheless, it is possible that computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others (through cyberattacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means) might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold. Any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
As a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  Despite our compliance with these standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others. In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
22
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  Any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
23
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam's Clubs located in each state or territory of the United States and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31,
2014
in the part of our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Unit Counts as of January 31,
2014
" that is an exhibit hereto and that information is incorporated herein by reference.
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2014
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
3,630
—
573
—
4,203
Sam's Club retail units
522
—
110
—
632
Total U.S. retail units
4,152
—
683
—
4,835
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
102
2
3
25
132
Sam's Club distribution facilities
8
—
—
15
23
Total U.S. distribution facilities
110
2
3
...
686
40
4,990
International properties
Africa
35
—
...
146
—
380
China
3
—
402
—
405
India
2
—
18
...
378
—
438
Mexico
(1)
647
—
...
176
—
576
Total International retail units
1,987
—
4,120
—
6,107
International distribution facilities
42
11
62
36
151
Total International properties
2,029
11
4,182
36
6,258
Total retail units
6,139
—
4,803
—
10,942
Total distribution facilities
152
13
65
...
76
11,248
(1)
Mexico unit counts exclude 360 units of the Vips restaurant business classified as discontinued operations as of January 31, 2014.  The Company has entered into an agreement to sell the operations of the Vips restaurant business, subject to regulatory approval.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our principal office and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. for operations and field management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "Item 1. Business."
24
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is one of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference in this item.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/7/07; Supreme Court of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/9/11.
Gender Discrimination Class Actions:
...
USDC, Southern Dist. of FL, 10/4/12;
Ladik v. Wal-Mart
, USDC, Western Dist. of WI, 2/20/13.
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in
The New York Times (
the
"
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former officers and directors as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of FCPA compliance.  Most, but not all, of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which is currently pending in the Western District of Arkansas and the other in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
, USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/31/12 (consolidation of six separately-filed suits);
Emory v. Duke, et al.
, USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 4/26/12;
...
Delaware Court of Chancery, 4/25/12 (consolidation of seven separately-filed suits).
25
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda ("Walmart Brazil"), a subsidiary of the Company, of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In July 2011, the Environmental Department of Bento Gonçalves
notified Walmart Brazil that it is investigating alleged soil contamination from oil leakage, in addition to the previous wastewater issue.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency and monitoring the affected area.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In January 2014, a division of the State Department of Sustainable Development of Santa Catarina notified Walmart Brazil that a store did not have the proper license for a wastewater treatment system.  Walmart Brazil is working with the agency to resolve the issue.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In February 2014, a division of the Health Department of the City of Vitória notified Walmart Brazil that a wastewater leak had been observed in the parking lot of a store.  Walmart Brazil immediately took steps to address the situation and is cooperating with the agency to resolve the issue.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall fifteen years ago for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank.  The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In 2013, Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Walmex"), a subsidiary of the Company, resolved 21 enforcement actions with the Mexico Environmental Protection Agency in the State of Michoacán, Mexico, involving a variety of issues that occurred between 2008 and 2013.  The issues included, but were not limited to, record-keeping allegations, such as failure to maintain appropriate records for air conditioning equipment, and the alleged failure to obtain appropriate permits, such as for the installation of ovens.  Walmex agreed to pay approximately $92,000 USD into a fund set up by the state for ecological projects and to help restore a natural preservation area known as La Mintzita, in resolution of 18 of the matters, and to pay approximately $92,500 USD to resolve the remaining 3 matters
.
In August 2013, the Company received a notice from the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") alleging that two products sold by the Company have exceeded volatile organic chemical limits prescribed in its California Consumer Products Regulations. The Company is responding to the allegations and cooperating with CARB's investigation.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with this matter will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions "Market price of common stock," "Listing" and "Dividends paid per share" in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange.  At
March 18, 2014
, the latest practicable date, there were
255,758
common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors.  On
June 6, 2013
, the Company's Board of Directors replaced the previous
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program, which had approximately
$712 million
of remaining authorization for share repurchases as of that date, with a new
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program, announced on
June 7, 2013
.  As was the case with the replaced share repurchase program, the current share repurchase program has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.  At
January 31, 2014
, authorization for
$11.3 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program, on a settlement date basis, for each of the three months ended
January 31, 2014
, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
11,230,437
27
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
28
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.  In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures.  Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.  Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.  Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, automating manual processes and updating existing systems.  For example, we are currently implementing various new financial system applications in stages across the Company.  To date, we have completed significant implementations in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Japan, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States.  As these financial system applications are implemented, they become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.  We will continue to implement and update our financial system applications in stages, and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.  Additionally, we are currently establishing shared service functions and processes on a global scale.  The implementation of our global shared services is in the beginning stages, and we believe the related changes to processes and internal controls will allow us to be more efficient and further enhance our internal control over financial reporting.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company's internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Management's Report to Our Shareholders" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting," respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Except for the ongoing implementation and updating of the financial system and global shared services functions noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31,
2014
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled "Information About the Board" and "Stock Ownership – Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
June 6, 2014
(our "Proxy Statement").
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant," which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC's Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our
2013
Annual Shareholders' Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts and our Codes of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers and other associates, required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions "Information About the Board – Board Committees," "Corporate Governance – Audit Committee Financial Experts" and "Corporate Governance – Board and Committee Governing Documents" included in our Proxy Statement.  "Item 1. Business" above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Information About the Board – Compensation of the Directors," "Executive Compensation" and under the sub-captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation Committee Report" that appear under the caption "Corporate Governance" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" that appear under the caption "Stock Ownership" and all information that appears under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption "Corporate Governance – Related Person Transactions," under the caption "Corporate Governance – Transaction Review Policy" and under the caption "Information About the Board – Director Independence" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
...
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:
1.     Financial Statements:
See the Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
2.     Financial Statement Schedules:
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(b)    Financial Statement Schedules
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 21, 2014
By
/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.
...
32
DATE: March 21, 2014
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 21, 2014
By
...
Director
DATE: March 21, 2014
By
/s/ Pamela J. Craig
Pamela J. Craig
Director
DATE: March 21, 2014
By
...
4 (b)
Form of Indenture dated as of August 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen's Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).
4 (c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4 (d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).
4 (e)
...
First Supplemental Indenture, dated December 1, 2006, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).
35
10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and effective February 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2013.
10(c)
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective June 4, 2010, are incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 19, 2010.
10(d)
...
10(f).1*
Amended Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete in the form filed as Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010.
10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(h)*
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010.
10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
10(l)
Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated effective June 4, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(o)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
36
10(o).1*
Amended Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete in the form filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.
10(p)
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(q)
Retirement Agreement between Eduardo Castro-Wright and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dated September 23, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated and filed September 27, 2011.
10(r)
Agreement by and between the Company and Michael T. Duke dated November 22, 2013, is incorporated by reference by Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K that the Company filed on November 25, 2013.
10(s)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Performance Unit Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Condition of Award.
10(t)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award.
10(u)*
Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete between Wal-Mart Canada Corp. and David Cheesewright dated as of January 31, 2014.
12*
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
13*
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014.  All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, is filed with the SEC.  The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
21*
List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries.
23*
...
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
[Total relevant lines: 921]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2014 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2015-04-01.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f July 31, 2014, th
e aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2014, was $116,140,698,613. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,226,062,652 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 30, 2015
.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2015 (the "Annual Report to Shareholders") included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2015 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
2
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include or incorporate, or may incorporate by reference, certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended (the "Act"), and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Forward-looking Statements
The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our forecasts of or expectations for various results, amounts, items and matters in or for future periods or at or by certain dates in the future, including:
•
our results of operations and certain financial results for certain periods;
•
our earnings per share for certain periods;
•
the comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one of our operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period;
•
our effective tax rate for a fiscal year or fiscal quarter;
•
our total revenue, our consolidated net sales or our membership and other income;
•
the net sales of one or more of our operating segments or the membership and other income of our Sam's Club segment;
•
the period-over-period growth in the net sales of the Company, an operating segment or particular operations;
•
the period-over-period change in particular financial items or financial measures or metrics;
•
...
•
our expenses in various categories or for particular items or relating to particular occurrences;
•
achievement of certain financial goals or plans;
•
our investment in particular initiatives and categories;
•
the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures;
•
the amount of the dividends we pay on our stock and the timing of those payments;
•
our capital structure;
•
the expansion and growth of our business, including the opening of certain numbers of additional stores, clubs and other facilities in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate within a particular period, including openings of units of a particular format;
•
the increase in our retail square footage on a consolidated basis and in our various operating segments and in countries in which we operate and the conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units;
•
the consummation of the acquisition of entities, assets or operations, the timing of the consummation of such acquisitions and the effects of such acquisitions on our results of operations;
•
our plans for integrating newly acquired operations into our existing operations;
•
our business strategy, business plans, pricing strategy, financing strategy and plans for various initiatives within the Company or a particular reportable segment of the Company's operations;
•
our cost of goods;
•
our inventory levels and changes in those levels;
•
the success of various operating initiatives;
•
plans for various initiatives within the Company;
•
changes in our operations, including the mix of merchandise sold globally, in the United States, internationally or in certain of the markets in which we operate;
•
changes in expected sales of certain categories of products;
•
our plans for leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple formats and global sourcing practices;
•
our liquidity and plans for accessing and ability to access the capital markets;
•
our need and ability to repatriate cash held offshore of the United States and the tax effect of any such repatriation;
•
the outcome of litigation and other legal proceedings to which we are subject and the costs we may incur in connection therewith and whether the outcome of litigation will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operation or liquidity;
3
•
our objectives and plans for our business and operations, including the business and operations of any of our reportable segments and our e-commerce and mobile commerce operations globally and within one of our reportable segments; and
•
other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement.
Such forward-looking statements include statements made in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.
Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "guidance," "plan," "projected," "projections," "will be," "will continue," "will change," "will decrease," "will have," "will increase," "will remain" and "will result" or words or other phrases commencing with the word "will," or words or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, which are outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements, including our results of operations, our earnings per share, our consolidated or one or more of our reportable segments' net sales, the comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one or more of our reportable segments, our effective tax rate for any period, our business operations or our business strategy, plans, goals or objectives.  These factors include, but are not limited to:
•
economic, geo-political, capital markets and business conditions, trends and events globally and in the markets in which we operate, including changes in the economic conditions, economic instability and unemployment and underemployment levels globally and in one or more of the markets in which we operate;
•
monetary policies of the United States government, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises, including sovereign debt crises, and disruptions in the financial markets;
•
governmental budget deficits;
•
inflation and deflation, generally and in certain product categories;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels and demand for certain merchandise;
•
customer traffic and average ticket in our stores and clubs and on our retail websites;
•
the mix of merchandise we sell globally or in one or more of the markets in which we operate;
•
consumer acceptance of our stores and clubs, e-commerce websites, mobile apps, initiatives, programs and merchandise offerings globally or in one or more of the markets in which we operate;
•
the availability of attractive opportunities for investment in retail operations in the markets in which we currently operate and in new markets and for investment in e-commerce acquisitions and initiatives;
•
the timing of consumers' receipt of tax refund checks;
•
changes in the amount of payments made under and the eligibility requirements of public assistance plans;
•
commodity prices, including the prices of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity;
•
our historical financial performance, including our U.S. and Walmart International cash flows, for one or more periods or historical financial position as of one or more dates completed or occurring after the date the pertinent forward-looking statement is made;
•
the cost of the goods we sell;
•
competitive initiatives of other retailers and other competitive pressures;
•
the entry of new competitors in our markets;
•
the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our other markets;
•
...
•
the size of and turnover in our hourly workforce in the United States and in the other markets in which we operate;
•
labor costs, including health-care and other benefit costs, globally or in one or more of the markets in which we operate;
•
the level of participation by our associates in the health-care plans we offer to our associates;
•
market costs of medical care and other essential services;
•
transportation costs;
•
the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
casualty- and accident-related costs;
•
...
•
information security costs and any costs and liabilities we would incur were a successful cyber attack on our information systems to occur;
•
availability and the cost of acceptable building sites for new and relocated stores, clubs and other facilities;
•
availability of qualified labor pools in the specific markets in which we operate, including the availability of persons with the skills and abilities necessary to meet Walmart's needs for managing and staffing its new and relocated units and conducting their operations and to meet seasonal associate hiring needs;
•
real estate, zoning, land use and other laws, ordinances, legal restrictions and initiatives that may prevent Walmart from building, or that impose limitations on Walmart's ability to build, new units in certain locations or relocate or expand existing units;
•
availability of necessary utilities for new or expanded units;
•
availability of skilled labor and labor, material and other construction costs in areas in which new or relocated units are proposed to be constructed or existing units are proposed to be expanded or remodeled;
•
weather conditions, patterns and events, climate change, catastrophic events and disasters, public health emergencies, civil disturbances and terrorist attacks and any consequent or related damage to our stores, clubs, distribution centers and other facilities and store closings and other limitations on our customers' access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events;
•
disruption in the availability of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications;
•
cyberattacks on our information systems, including any of those used to operate our e-commerce websites;
•
disruption in our supply chain, including of the availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers to our stores and other facilities;
•
trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates;
•
adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in corporate and personal tax rates and the imposition of new taxes and surcharges;
•
costs of compliance with laws and regulations;
•
the mix of our earnings from our United States and foreign operations;
•
changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases or decreases in valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items on our effective tax rate and the resolution of other tax matters;
•
developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject and the expenses associated therewith;
•
the requirements for expenditures in connection with FCPA-related matters, including enhancements to Walmart's compliance program and ongoing investigations;
•
changes in the rating of any of our indebtedness;
•
currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility;
•
the amount of our net sales for a period denominated in particular currencies other than the U.S. dollar;
•
fluctuations in market rates of interest;
•
...
•
unanticipated changes in accounting estimates and judgments; and
•
unanticipated restructurings and the related expenses.
Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns.  Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
5
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The foregoing list of factors that may affect the results, items and other matters that are the subject of the forecasts and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf is not exclusive, and other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.  Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss below under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and may discuss in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the SEC. Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made.  However, as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by such forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
6
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities.  Through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping.  Physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate.  Digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  Each week, we serve nearly 260 million customers who visit our over 11,000 stores under 72 banners in 27 countries and e-commerce websites in 11 countries.
Our strategy is to lead on price, invest to differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience.  Leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"), while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity.  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Price leadership is core to who we are.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers.  Our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere.  We strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2015
("fiscal
2015
...
2013
").  During fiscal
2015
, we generated total revenues of $
485.7 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$482.2 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first three Sam's Clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has continued to expand and as of
January 31, 2015
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 26 countries.
In 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website.  Since then, our digital presence has continued to grow and as of
January 31, 2015
, we operated e-commerce websites in 11 countries, providing access to Walmart and our various brands around the world.
7
Information About Our Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.  The Company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  The Company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments.  It is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the U.S., Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail.  Walmart U.S. generated approximately
60%
of our net sales in fiscal
2015
, and of our three segments, Walmart U.S. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Walmart International consists of operations in 26 countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including Sam's Clubs, cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  Walmart International generated approximately
28%
of our fiscal
2015
net sales.  The overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. because of its merchandise mix.  Walmart International is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units.
Sam's Club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 48 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico, as well as digital retail.  Sam's Club accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2015
net sales.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  As a result, Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" or "Wal-Mart" brands, as well as walmart.com.  The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$288.0 billion
,
$279.4 billion
...
2014
and
2013
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Physical.
The Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in
49
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 42 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in
31
states and Puerto Rico.  The following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of
January 31, 2015
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
219,000
105,000
Neighborhood Markets and other small formats
(1)
(grocery)
1,000
66,000
37,000
(1)
Other small formats include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs.  Traditional Neighborhood Markets average 42,000 square feet.
8
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
RETAIL UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
470
49,327
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
4,516
680,112
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
9
Digital.
Access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services are available to our customers through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  Walmart.com experiences on average 60 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 8 million SKUs.  Digital retail is integrated with our physical stores through services like "Walmart Pickup" and "Pickup Today."  The Walmart U.S. segment also offers digital services like Vudu and InstaWatch.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, over-the-counter drugs and clinical services;
•
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books;
•
Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;
•
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
•
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home décor, outdoor living and horticulture.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Price First," "Prima Della," "Sam's Choice," "Spring Valley" and "White Stag."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Danskin Now," "Farberware," "General Electric," "OP," "Rival," "Russell," "Starter," "Straight Talk" and "Wild Oats."
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal
2015
,
2014
...
2015
2014
2013
Grocery
56%
56%
55%
Health and wellness
11%
10%
11%
Entertainment
10%
11%
11%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous period's presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets, are 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
10
Competition.
The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  We also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP:  our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC:  everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Rollbacks:  our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Savings Catcher, Save Even More and Ad Match:  strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Walmart Pickup:  place your order online and pick it up for free from a store.  The merchandise is delivered through our distribution facilities;
•
Pickup Today:  place your order online and you pick-up at a store within 4 hours for free.  The order is fulfilled through existing store inventory; and
•
Money Back Guarantee:  our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2015
, approximately
80%
of the Walmart U.S. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our
134
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet.  However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.
The following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and eleven e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2015
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
102
2
6
24
134
11
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment consists of operations in 26 countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including Sam's Clubs, cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  The segment's net sales for fiscal
2015
,
2014
...
$136.5 billion
and
$134.7 billion
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Physical.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.
Generally, retail units range in size from
4,000
square feet to
250,000
...
35,000
square feet to
70,000
square feet.  Other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom, range in size up to
4,200
square feet.  Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs.
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT
(1)
AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(2)
Africa
Argentina
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
11,094
404
14,762
China
India
Japan
Mexico
(3)
United
Kingdom
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
6,290
367,630
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of
January 31, 2010
.
(2)
...
(3)
All periods presented exclude units and square feet for the Vips restaurant business.  The Company completed the sale of the Vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015.
12
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31, 2015
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
3
24
404
China
400
11
—
411
India
—
20
—
...
—
59
431
Mexico
2,120
160
10
...
109
6,290
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2014
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of
January 31, 2015
.
(2)
"Other" includes restaurants, drug stores, convenience stores and banks operating under varying banners.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
1
...
1
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
217
), El Salvador (
89
...
) and Nicaragua (
86
).
Digital.
The Walmart International segment operates e-commerce websites in 10 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom).  Customers have access through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country.  Digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in Mexico.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Ol' Roy" and "Parent’s Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Chosen by You," "Extra Special" and "Smart Price."  In addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Each country accepts a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate.  We also operate some restaurants and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites.  Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which Walmart International operates.  We believe EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets and we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
13
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
156
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2015
, approximately
80%
of the Walmart International segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  The following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities as of
January 31, 2015
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
International distribution facilities
41
11
70
34
156
14
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the U.S. and had net sales of
$58.0 billion
,
$57.2 billion
...
2014
and
2013
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Membership.
The following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers:
Membership Type
Business Plus
Savings Plus
Business
Savings
Member Type
...
Individual
Business Owner
Individual
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$100
$45
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
—
Up to 8
...
Yes
No
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a new benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.
Physical.
As a membership-only warehouse club, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between
71,000
and
190,000
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
647
86,510
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Digital.
Sam's Club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com.  Digital retail supports our clubs and members through services such as "Club Pickup" (formerly "Click'N'Pull").
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "Member's Mark" and its own proprietary brands, "Daily Chef" and "Simply Right," in five merchandise categories, listed below.
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
The Sam's Club segment also offers small business services and related products, including affordable health care plans through the Aetna Marketplace for Sam’s Club, legal solutions from LegalZoom, as well as payroll services, merchant payment processing, and travel booking provided by third-parties.
15
The percentage of net sales for the Sam's Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal
2015
,
2014
...
2015
2014
2013
Grocery and consumables
57%
56%
55%
Fuel and other categories
23%
23%
24%
...
8%
8%
8%
Technology, office and entertainment
7%
8%
8%
Health and wellness
5%
5%
5%
...
100%
100%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Business Members and Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the Sam's Club cash-back MasterCard.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam's Club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which are Costco Wholesale and BJ's Wholesale Club, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Sam's Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Savings and Business members.  Our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the membership-only warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2015
, approximately
66%
of the Sam's Club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam's Club segment's
24
dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  The table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities as of
January 31, 2015
.
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
2
16
24
The principal focus of Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of a private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
16
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2015
("Annual Report to Shareholders") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 14 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  Note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2015
, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
2.2 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly
1.4 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.8 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good.
On February 19, 2015, the Company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for U.S. associates.  Approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at Walmart U.S. stores and Sam's Clubs will receive pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016.  Also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure.  These changes will give our U.S. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders in Note 12 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam's Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S.  The Company's medical plan in the U.S. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
Similarly, in the operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
17
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Neil M. Ashe
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce, beginning in January 2012.  From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company.  From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher.
2012
47
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, beginning in June 2013.  From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
43
Rosalind G. Brewer
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2012.  From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S.  From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast.
2012
52
M. Susan Chambers
...
2006
57
David Cheesewright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 1, 2014.  From September 2011 to January 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for Walmart International's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Canada region.  From February 2008 to September 2011, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart Canada.
2014
52
Gregory Foran
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  beginning in August 2014.  From May 2014 to August 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region.  From March 2012 to May 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China.  From October 2011 to March 2012, he served as Senior Vice President responsible for various international projects.  From 2009 until July 2011, he served as Director of Supermarkets, Liquor and Petrol at Woolworths Limited, the largest retailer in Australia and New Zealand.
2014
53
Rollin L. Ford
...
2010
58
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2014.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
48
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
55
18
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.corporate.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers or our Statement of Ethics will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
19
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.
Global and Domestic Economic Risks and Consumer Demand Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory.  Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the U.S.  These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results.
Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, digital retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  A critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. These factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, digital retail offerings or a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  As a result of such translations, future fluctuations in currency exchange rate over time that are unfavorable to us may result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate
20
fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse affect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of goods sold may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs. Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
Capital Investment and Information Systems Risks
We may face impediments to our expansion in the U.S., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy in the U.S. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the U.S. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.  Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam's Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states.  Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters.  If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam's Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected.  In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations.  In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam's Clubs, not previously operated in those markets.  As in the U.S., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units.  In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods.  Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.  If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant
21
investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  Any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
Competitive and Reputational Risks
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.  The wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the U.S. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the U.S. that we announced in February 2015 will increase our wage and other labor expenses significantly.  If the combined impact of the increase in our gross profit and decrease in certain operating expenses in fiscal 2015 and thereafter does not offset the additional wage expense, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for recent fiscal years.  In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or through a combination of both areas), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive.  Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers.  Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses.  Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Such retailers, wholesale club operators and e-commerce retailers compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, the merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, speed of and options for delivery to our customers of the merchandise they purchase from us online and the integration of our physical locations with our digital retail operations.  Where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale.  Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "Item 1. Business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
22
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer "Walmart Pickup" and "Club Pickup" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Data and Privacy Risks
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.  In addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.  Each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  We maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us.
As a result of these measures and our monitoring processes and procedures, we believe that past attempts by computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful.  However, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate one or more of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others may attempt to defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and breach our or our third-party service providers information systems.  Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  As cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold or to which our third-party service providers have access, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.  Moreover, associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers’ security measures and breach our or our third-party service providers information systems (whether digital or otherwise).
Any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.
23
As a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council.  PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  By accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with the American National Standards Institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines.  Even though we comply with these guidelines and standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
Supply Chain and Third-Party Risks
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.  Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the U.S., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.  In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
Legal, Regulatory and Other External Risks
Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa, Central America, China and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.  During fiscal
2015
, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
28%
of our consolidated net sales.  As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the U.S., we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
In particular, Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other
24
factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as Superstorm Sandy in the U.S. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the U.S. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  We are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.  In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("ASDA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in over 4,000 "equal value" claims that are pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former ASDA store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in ASDA's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in ASDA's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking:  (i) back pay consisting of the difference between the wage rate paid in the stores and the rate paid in the warehouses and distribution facilities for the period of their employment up to a maximum of six years under the statute of limitations; and (ii) an increase in the store rate prospectively, to match that paid in the warehouses and the
25
distribution facilities. On January 30, 2015, the Employment Tribunal held a case management conference in order to set a schedule for addressing jurisdictional challenges and other issues involved in the first phase of the litigation.  At this time, it is undetermined:  (i) how many of these claims may ultimately be filed; or (ii) whether the Employment Tribunal will decide to hear each claim individually or to consolidate them into groups of similar claims and proceed with the trial of "test cases."  Determinations made in such test cases, if any, might be asserted as binding in subsequent trials of claims within that group and any subsequent claims involving the same issues.  Moreover, a determination as to the appropriate rate of pay for a particular store position might be asserted as the basis for additional claims for back pay or wage increases by other store associates who perform, or who have performed, like work in that position.  On March 23, 2015, ASDA asked the Employment Tribunal to stay all proceedings, contending that the High Court, which is the superior first instance civil court in the UK that is headquartered in the Royal Courts of Justice in the City of London, is the more convenient and appropriate forum to hear these claims.  On March 23, 2015, ASDA also asked the Employment Tribunal to "strike out" substantially all of the claims for failing to comply with Employment Tribunal rules.  We discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 10 in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements", which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct.  We are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for FCPA compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.  Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC, and we have been informed by the DOJ and the SEC that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the FCPA.  A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review.  Moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $173 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2015) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers.  These matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues.  While we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse affect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
26
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam's Clubs located in each state or territory of the U.S. and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31,
2015
in the part of our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Unit Counts as of January 31,
2015
" that is an exhibit hereto and that information is incorporated herein by reference.  The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2015
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Leased and Third Party Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
3,860
—
656
—
4,516
Sam's Club retail units
536
—
111
—
647
Total U.S. retail units
4,396
—
767
—
5,163
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
102
2
6
24
134
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
2
16
24
Total U.S. distribution facilities
105
5
8
...
775
40
5,321
International properties
Africa
41
—
...
160
—
404
China
3
—
408
—
411
India
2
—
18
...
370
—
431
Mexico
671
—
1,619
...
182
—
592
Total International retail units
2,079
—
4,211
—
6,290
International distribution facilities
41
11
70
34
156
Total International properties
2,120
11
4,281
34
6,446
Total retail units
6,475
—
4,978
—
11,453
Total distribution facilities
146
16
78
...
5,056
74
11,767
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our principal office and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. for operations and field management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "Item 1. Business."
27
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is one of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference in this item.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/7/07; Supreme Ct. of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/9/11.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others-Manchester Employment Tribunal).
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in
The New York Times (
the "
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former officers and directors as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of FCPA compliance.  All of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which is currently pending in the Western District of Arkansas and the other in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  On March 31, 2015, the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
, USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/31/12;
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Delaware Derivative Litigation,
Delaware Ct. of Chancery, 4/25/12.
28
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
Between April 2014 and October 2014, the Sustainability Development Ministry of the Municipality of Juarez in Nuevo León, Mexico, notified a subsidiary of the Company, Nueva Wal-Mart de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., that there were environmental concerns with the operations at 10 stores.  These concerns included but were not limited to the failure to have the appropriate number of trees planted on the property, failure to have appropriate perimeter fencing, and lack of proper zoning permits for some stores.  The Company resolved this with the agency by paying a penalty of approximately $333,000 and implementing steps to address the concerns.
In 2014, the Environmental and Natural History Ministry of Chiapas, Mexico, notified a subsidiary of the Company, Arrendadora de Centros Comerciales, S. de R.L. de C.V., that four stores may have been constructed without first obtaining an environmental impact license as required, and for failing to comply with conditions required by those licenses.  The Ministry has proposed a penalty of approximately $857,000 and has required the Company to obtain the licenses and comply with the conditions.
In September 2014, a spill of approximately 50 liters of fuel occurred at a store in Lerma, Mexico.  A subsidiary of the Company, Nueva Wal-Mart de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., took steps to address the spill and engaged an expert to oversee the final cleanup.  The Municipality of Lerma proposed a penalty of approximately $128,000 along with implementation of a monitoring program around the spill area to address the situation.
In February 2014, a division of the Health Department of the City of Vitória notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda ("Walmart Brazil"), a subsidiary of the Company, that a wastewater leak had been observed in the parking lot of a store. Walmart Brazil immediately took steps to address the situation and is cooperating with the agency to resolve the issue.
In January 2014, a division of the State Department of Sustainable Development of Santa Catarina notified Walmart Brazil that a store did not have the proper license for a wastewater treatment system.  Walmart Brazil is working with the agency to resolve the issue.
In August 2013, the Company received a notice from the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") alleging that two products sold by the Company have exceeded volatile organic chemical limits prescribed in its California Consumer Products Regulations.  The Company is responding to the allegations and cooperating with CARB's investigation.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall seventeen years ago for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank.  The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
In July 2011, the Environmental Department of Bento Gonçalves notified Walmart Brazil that it is investigating alleged soil contamination from oil leakage.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency and monitoring the affected area.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified Walmart Brazil of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation.
ITEM 4.
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions "Market price of common stock," "Listing" and "Dividends paid per share" in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the U.S. on the New York Stock Exchange.  At
March 30, 2015
, the latest practicable date, there were
249,876
common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors.  On June 6, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors replaced the previous
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program, which had approximately
$712 million
of remaining authorization for share repurchases as of that date, with a new
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program, announced on June 7, 2013.  As was the case with the replaced share repurchase program, the current share repurchase program has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.  At
January 31, 2015
, authorization for
$10.3 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
For the three months ended
January 31, 2015
, the Company did not repurchase shares of its common stock under the share repurchase program.
30
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
31
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.  In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures.  Also, we have investments in unconsolidated entities.  Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.  Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, updating existing systems, automating manual processes, migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations and increasing monitoring controls.  These changes have not materially affected, and are not reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  However, they allow us to continue to enhance our internal controls over financial reporting and ensure that they remain effective.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company's internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Management's Report to Our Shareholders" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting," respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2015
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled "Corporate Governance" and "Stock Ownership – Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
June 5, 2015
(our "Proxy Statement").
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant," which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC's Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our
2014
Annual Shareholders' Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts and our Codes of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics applicable to all of our associates, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our Controller, who is our principal accounting officer, required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Board Committees," "Corporate Governance – Audit Committee Financial Experts" and "Corporate Governance – Board and Committee Governing Documents" included in our Proxy Statement.  "Item 1. Business" above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and under the sub-captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation Committee Report" that appear under the caption "Executive Compensation" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" that appear under the caption "Stock Ownership" and all information that appears under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption "Corporate Governance – Related Person Transactions," under the caption "Corporate Governance – Transaction Review Policy" and under the caption "Corporate Governance – Director Independence" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
...
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:
1.     Financial Statements:
See the Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
2.     Financial Statement Schedules:
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(b)
...
By
/s/ S. Robson Walton
S. Robson Walton
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.
...
35
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
...
Director
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
/s/ Pamela J. Craig
Pamela J. Craig
Director
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
...
By
/s/ Gregory B. Penner
Gregory B. Penner
Vice Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE:  April 1, 2015
By
/s/ Steven S Reinemund
...
4 (b)
Form of Indenture dated as of August 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen's Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).
4 (c)
Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).
4 (d)
Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).
4 (e)
...
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated December 19, 2014, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-201074).
38
10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and effective February 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2013.
10(c)*
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective February 6, 2015.
10(d)
...
10(f)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
10(g)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.
10(l)
Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(m)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(n)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated effective June 4, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
10(o)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
39
10(o).1*
Amended Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete in the form filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.
10(p)
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
10(q)
Agreement by and between the Company and Michael T. Duke dated November 22, 2013, is incorporated by reference by Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K that the Company filed on November 25, 2013.
10(r)
Retirement Agreement between William S. Simon and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dated July 23, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated and filed July 24, 2014.
10(s)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Performance Unit Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Condition of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(t)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(u)
Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete between Wal-Mart Canada Corp. and David Cheesewright dated as of January 31, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
12*
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
13*
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015.  All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015, is filed with the SEC.  The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
21*
List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries.
23*
...
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
40
Notes to Exhibit Index:
1.
The exhibits listed in this Exhibit Index and incorporated as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015 by reference to an Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company previously filed with the SEC by the Company are available for review online on the EDGAR system of the SEC at www.sec.gov as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K referred to above in the description of the exhibit incorporated by reference.
2.
The Company and its subsidiaries have in the past issued, and may in the future issue from time to time, long-term debt instruments, but the aggregate principal amount of the debt instruments of any one series of such debt instruments has not exceeded or will not exceed 10% of the assets of the Company at any pertinent time.  The Company has previously filed with the SEC its agreement to, and hereby agrees to, file copies of the agreements relating to long-term debt instruments and the instruments representing or evidencing such long-term debt instruments with the SEC upon request.  As a result, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, copies of such long term debt instruments have not been filed as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015.  The Company has previously filed the documents and instruments establishing the specific terms of long-term debt instruments offered and sold by the Company pursuant to its effective registration statements filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as exhibits to the applicable registration statement or as exhibits to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed in connection with the applicable registration statement and the sale and issuance of those long-term debt instruments.
41
[Total relevant lines: 1194]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2015 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2016-03-30.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f July 31, 2015, th
e aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2015, was $112,949,080,512. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,144,335,104 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 28, 2016
.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2016 (the "Annual Report to Shareholders") included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 3, 2016 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
2
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our economic performance or results for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future, including, without limitation, our earnings per share, the comparable store and clubs sales for one or more of our reportable segments, our effective tax rate, the dividends we will pay, our capital structure, the outcome of tax matters, the outcome of, the costs we may incur, and the liability we may have or not have in, legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are subject, and, on a consolidated basis or for one or more of our reportable segments, the amount of or period-over-period change in total revenue, net sales, membership income, other income, gross merchandise value, inventory levels, performance of certain categories of merchandise, capital expenditures, expense items, store and club openings, the amount and nature of capital and operating expenditures and investments, increases in retail square footage, the consummation of acquisitions or dispositions of assets, and other financial measures or metrics.  Our forward-looking statements also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "expectation," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "guidance," "intend," "plan," "priority," "project," "to be," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will increase," "will remain," "will strengthen" and "will stay," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.  The forward-looking statements include statements made in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements and cause our actual results or an actual event or occurrence to differ materially from those results or an event or occurrence described in a forward-looking statement we have made.  These factors, which may be global in their effect or affect only some of the markets in which we operate and which may affect us on a consolidated basis or affect only some of our reportable segments, include, but are not limited to:
•
economic, geo-political, financial markets and business conditions, trends, changes, and events, economic crises, including sovereign debt crises, and disruptions in the financial markets;
•
monetary policies of the various governments, governmental entities, and central banks;
•
currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility and changes in market rates of interest;
•
inflation and deflation, generally and in certain product categories, including gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels, demand for certain merchandise and receipt of income tax refunds and public assistance payments;
•
consumer acceptance of our stores and clubs, e-commerce websites, mobile commerce applications, initiatives, programs and merchandise offerings and customer traffic and average ticket in our stores and clubs and on our retail websites and mobile commerce applications;
•
the availability of attractive opportunities for investment in retail operations and e-commerce operations;
•
commodity and energy prices and selling prices of commodity items, such as gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
our historical results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity;
•
the amounts of sales and earnings from our United States and foreign operations and our cost of goods sold;
•
competitive initiatives, and changes in the operations, of other retailers, including e-commerce retailers, and warehouse club operators, arrival of new competitors and other competitive pressures;
•
the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns and the disruption of such patterns;
•
unanticipated store or club closures and unanticipated restructurings and the related expenses;
3
•
the size of and turnover in our hourly workforce, and our labor costs, including health-care and other benefit costs;
•
costs of transportation and other essential services, such as medical care;
•
...
•
cyberattacks on and incidents relating to our information systems, related costs and liabilities and information security costs;
•
availability and cost of acceptable building sites and necessary utilities for new and relocated units;
•
availability and cost of skilled construction labor, materials and other construction costs;
•
availability of qualified labor pools for existing, new or expanded units and to meet seasonal hiring needs;
•
real estate, zoning, land use and other laws, ordinances, legal restrictions and initiatives affecting our ability to build new units in certain locations or relocate or expand existing units;
•
weather conditions, patterns and events, climate change, catastrophic events and disasters, public health emergencies, civil disturbances and terrorist attacks, resulting damage to our units and store and club closings and limitations on our customers' access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events;
•
disruptions in the availability of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications;
•
trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates and disruptions in our supply chain;
•
costs of compliance with laws and regulations and effects of new or changed tax, labor and other laws and regulations, including those changing tax rates and imposing new taxes and surcharges;
•
changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, changes in valuation allowances, outcome of administrative audits, impact of discrete items on our effective tax rate and resolution of tax matters;
•
developments in and the outcome of our legal and regulatory proceedings and our FCPA-related matters, and associated costs and expenses;
•
changes in the rating of any of our indebtedness and our access to the capital markets; and
•
unanticipated changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretations or applicability and in accounting estimates and judgments.
We typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal buying patterns, which patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The above list of factors that may affect the estimates and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or made on our behalf is not exclusive.  We are subject to other risks and uncertainties discussed below under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and that we may discuss in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or otherwise disclose in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements that we make or made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
4
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities.  Through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping.  Physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate.  Digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  Each week, we serve nearly 260 million customers who visit our over 11,500 stores under 63 banners in 28 countries and e-commerce websites in 11 countries.
Our strategy is to lead on price, differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience.  Leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Price leadership is core to who we are.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers.  Our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere.  We strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2016
("fiscal
2016
...
2014
").  During fiscal
2016
, we generated total revenues of
$482.1 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$478.6 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has continued to expand and, as of
January 31, 2016
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 27 countries.
In 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website.  Since then, our digital presence has continued to grow.  As of
January 31, 2016
, we operated e-commerce websites in 11 countries, providing access to Walmart and our various brands around the world.
5
Information About Our Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.  The Company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  The Company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments.  It is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the U.S., Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail.  Walmart U.S. generated approximately
62%
of our net sales in fiscal
2016
, and of our three segments, Walmart U.S. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Walmart International consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including Sam's Clubs, cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  Walmart International generated approximately
26%
of our fiscal
2016
net sales.  The overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.  Walmart International is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units.
Sam's Club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 48 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico, as well as digital retail.  Sam's Club accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2016
net sales.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  As a result, Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" or "Wal-Mart" brands, as well as walmart.com.  The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$298.4 billion
,
$288.0 billion
...
2015
and
2014
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company consolidated net sales.
Physical.
The Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in
49
...
41
states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in
31
states and Puerto Rico.  The following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of
January 31, 2016
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
104,000
Neighborhood Markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
66,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats which include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs.
6
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
RETAIL UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
442
45,991
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
4,574
689,647
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(4)
Of the 158 stores closed in fiscal 2016, 149 stores were closed following the announcement on January 15, 2016 of the closure of 269 stores globally.  The fiscal 2016 store closures included 102 Express format locations of Walmart U.S., which were included in the Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats category.
7
Digital.
Walmart U.S. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  Walmart.com experiences on average 85 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 8 million SKUs.  In addition, our e-commerce website includes Marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com.  Digital retail is integrated with our physical stores through services like "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today" and "Online Grocery."  The Walmart U.S. segment also offers access to digital content and services including Vudu and InstaWatch.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural & organics, deli & bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products;
•
Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books;
•
Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;
•
Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories; and
•
Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, outdoor living and horticulture.
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
National brand merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Prima Della," "Pure Balance," "Sam's Choice," "Special Kitty," "Spring Valley" and "White Stag."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Danskin Now," "Farberware," "General Electric," "OP," "Rival," "Russell," "Starter," and "Straight Talk."
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal
2016
,
2015
...
2016
2015
2014
Grocery
56%
56%
56%
Health and wellness
11%
11%
10%
Entertainment
9%
10%
11%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous period's presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets, are 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
8
Competition.
The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  We also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Savings Catcher, Save Even More and Ad Match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Walmart Pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store.  The merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities;
•
Pickup Today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free.  The order is fulfilled through existing store inventory;
•
Online Grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and
•
Money Back Guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.  In addition, our retail website and mobile commerce applications are important factors in our competition with other retailers, particularly e-commerce retailers.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2016
, approximately
79%
of the Walmart U.S. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our
137
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet.  However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.
Walmart U.S. ships merchandise purchased by customers on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from its dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers.
The following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and 13 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2016
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
102
2
10
23
137
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including Sam's Clubs, cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  The segment's net sales for fiscal
2016
,
2015
...
$136.2 billion
and
$136.5 billion
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Physical.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua) and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China.
Generally, retail units range in size from
4,000
square feet to
185,000
...
35,000
square feet to
70,000
square feet.  Other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in Brazil, Chile, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom, range in size up to
2,400
square feet.  Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit.
9
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT
(1)
AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(2)
Africa
Argentina
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
11,410
395
15,407
China
India
Japan
Mexico
(3)
United
Kingdom
Total Segment
(4)
Fiscal Year
Unit
...
6,299
372,198
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2011.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
...
(4)
There were 189 store closures in fiscal 2016, of which 60 stores were closed in relation to the announcement on January 15, 2016 of the closure of 269 stores globally.
10
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31, 2016
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
3
—
395
China
420
12
—
432
India
—
21
—
...
—
—
346
Mexico
2,189
161
10
...
42
6,299
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2015
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of
January 31, 2016
.
(2)
Other includes drug stores and convenience stores operating under varying banners.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
1
...
3
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
225
), El Salvador (
91
...
) and Nicaragua (
88
).
Digital.
The Walmart International segment operates e-commerce websites in 10 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom).  Customers have access through our e-commerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country.  Digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in Mexico.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hometrends," "Mainstays," "Ol' Roy" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Chosen by You," "Extra Special" and "Smart Price."  In addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Each country accepts a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate.  We also operate, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites.  Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which Walmart International operates.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.  In the markets in which we have retail websites or retail websites and mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in the digital and the physical retail operations.
11
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
176
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2016
, approximately
77%
of the Walmart International segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  The following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 19 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of December 31, 2015, with the exception of distribution facilities in Canada, which is stated as of
January 31, 2016
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
International distribution facilities
45
11
72
48
176
We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers.
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the U.S. and had net sales of
$56.8 billion
,
$58.0 billion
...
2015
and
2014
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Membership.
The following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers:
Membership Type
Business Plus
Savings Plus
Business
Savings
Member Type
...
Individual
Business Owner
Individual
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$100
$45
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
—
Up to 8
...
Yes
No
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.
Physical.
As a membership-only warehouse club, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between
71,000
and
168,000
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
655
87,552
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Digital.
Sam's Club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce application.  Samsclub.com experiences on average 16 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 51,000 SKUs providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "Club Pickup."
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label brands such as "Member's Mark" in five merchandise categories, listed below.
12
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
The percentage of net sales for the Sam's Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal
2016
,
2015
...
2016
2015
2014
Grocery and consumables
59%
57%
56%
Fuel and other categories
20%
23%
23%
...
9%
8%
8%
Technology, office and entertainment
7%
7%
8%
Health and wellness
5%
5%
5%
...
100%
100%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Business Members and Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the Sam's Club "Cash Back" MasterCard.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam's Club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which are Costco Wholesale and BJ's Wholesale Club, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Sam's Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Savings and Business members.  Our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the membership-only warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry.  Our e-commerce website and mobile commerce application have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2016
, approximately
69%
of the Sam's Club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam's Club segment's
24
dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  The table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including one e-commerce dedicated fulfillment center and two dedicated import facilities, as of
January 31, 2016
.
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
2
16
24
The principal focus of Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of a private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased by members on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its e-commerce dedicated fulfillment center and other distribution centers.
13
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2016
("Annual Report to Shareholders") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 14 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  Note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  Such portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the United States, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores and clubs.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2016
, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
2.3 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly
1.5 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.8 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good.
On February 19, 2015, the Company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for U.S. associates.  Approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at Walmart U.S. stores and Sam's Clubs received pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016 and in February 2016, approximately 1.2 million full-time and part-time associates at Walmart U.S. stores and Sam's Clubs received pay increases.  Also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure.  These changes will give our U.S. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders in Note 12 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam's Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S.  The Company's medical plan in the U.S. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
Similarly, in the operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
14
...
Held Since
Age
Neil M. Ashe
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce and Technology, beginning in February 2016, and from January 2012 to January 2016 served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce.  From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company.  From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher.
2012
48
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, beginning in June 2013.  From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
44
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.  From January 2013 to January 2014, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart U.S. and from January 2012 to January 2013, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart U.S.  From September 2010 to January 2012, he served as Senior Vice President, Sam's Club Operations.
2016
47
Rosalind G. Brewer
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2012.  From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S.  From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S.  From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast.
2012
53
Jacqueline P. Canney
Executive Vice President, Global People, effective August 3, 2015.  From September 2003 to July 2015, she served as the Managing Director of Global Human Resources at Accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services, and outsourcing company, and prior to 2003, she served in a variety of human resource roles during her career with Accenture that began in 1989.
2015
48
David Cheesewright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 1, 2014.  From September 2011 to January 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for Walmart International's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Canada region.  From February 2008 to September 2011, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart Canada.
2014
53
Gregory Foran
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  beginning in August 2014.  From May 2014 to August 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region.  From March 2012 to May 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China.  From October 2011 to March 2012, he served as Senior Vice President responsible for various international projects.  From 2009 until July 2011, he served as Director of Supermarkets, Liquor and Petrol at Woolworths Limited, the largest retailer in Australia and New Zealand.
2014
54
Rollin L. Ford
...
2013
51
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2014.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
49
Steven P. Whaley
...
2007
56
15
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers or our Statement of Ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
16
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.
Strategic Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, otherwise adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory.
Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the U.S.  These conditions may adversely affect our net sales, gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results.
Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, higher transportation costs, inflation, higher commodity prices, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results.  The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, digital retail or the integration of physical and digital retail, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  A critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping.  These factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings.  Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, digital retail offerings or the integration of physical retail and digital retail, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.
17
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or through the integration of both areas), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive.  Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers and wholesale club operators, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers and retail intermediaries.  Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as e-commerce retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses.
Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, apparel stores, wholesale clubs, cash & carry operations, convenience stores and e-commerce and catalog businesses.  We compete with such retailers, wholesale club operators and e-commerce retailers in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, the merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, cost and speed of and options for delivery to our customers of the merchandise they purchase from us online, through mobile commerce applications and the integration of our physical locations with our digital retail operations.
Where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale.  Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "Item 1. Business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications.  As a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with all retailers and wholesale clubs could occur online and through mobile commerce applications.  If we fail to maintain or grow our overall market position through the integration of our physical retail presence and digital retail, our net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected.  In addition, a greater concentration of retail and wholesale club sales in online and mobile commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic we have in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such in-store and in-club traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical side of our segments’ overall operations.
Operational Risks
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our retail websites and mobile commerce applications to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as Superstorm Sandy in the U.S. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the U.S. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
18
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the U.S., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by our customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  Any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
19
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including walmart.com and samsclub.com in the U.S. and our retail websites in 10 other countries, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through mobile commerce applications with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer "Walmart Pickup" and "Club Pickup" and in a growing number of locations, "Online Grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.
We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for new developments and technology investments by our competitors through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and mobile commerce application merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, members, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.  In addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.  Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  We maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us.
However, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate one or more of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which cyber-attackers may attempt to defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and breach our or our third-party service providers' information systems.  During fiscal 2016, we were notified that a third party service provider that hosts the online photo center for Walmart Canada suffered a security breach that compromised information of users of that company's site, including some Walmart Canada customers, which we believe has not had a material impact on Walmart Canada or the Company.  Walmart Canada discontinued use of this third party service provider.  Sam's Club in the United States also used the same third party service provider to host its online photo center through a different system than the one used by Walmart Canada.  After the breach in Canada, Sam's Club suspended the operation of the online photo center until a security review could be completed by the third party service provider.  Once the security review was complete and new technology with enhanced security measures was implemented by the third party service provider, along with a determination that the information of Sam's Club members was not compromised by the security breach, Sam's Club resumed the operation of the online photo center through the same third party service provider.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  As cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future like the incident referenced above and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors that we hold or to which our third-party service providers have access, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.  Moreover, associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and breach our or our third-party service providers' information systems (whether digital or otherwise).
20
Any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers and members whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer and member confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  By accepting debit and credit cards as a retailer for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council.  PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  The payment card industry set October 1, 2015 as the date on which it will shift liability for certain transactions to retailers who are not able to accept Europay, MasterCard, Visa (EMV) chip card credit and debit transactions.  While we already accept many EMV cards, if we are unable to fully implement EMV as planned, we may incur increased costs associated with the liability shift.  By accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with the American National Standards Institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines.  Even though we comply with these guidelines and standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
The wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the U.S. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the U.S. that we announced in February 2015, and related wage increases for 1.2 million associates aggregating $1.5 billion in the year ending January 31, 2017 ("fiscal 2017") will increase our wage and other labor expenses significantly.  If we cannot offset the increases in our wage expenses resulting from those wage increases by increasing our gross profit, achieving decreases in our operating, selling, general and administrative expense or a combination of both in the year ending January 31, 2018 and thereafter, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could continue to be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for our fiscal years prior to fiscal 2017.  In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase even more significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
21
We may face impediments to our expansion of physical retail in the U.S., which may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our expansion strategy in the U.S. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the U.S. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.  Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam's Clubs depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states, including in market areas in which we have no existing operations.
Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters.  Moreover, our expansion in our existing local market areas may be limited if the opening of new stores or clubs would result in an unacceptable level of cannibalization of the sales of existing stores or clubs.  If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam's Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand or in which we build stores of a new format are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations.  In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam's Clubs, not previously operated in those markets.  As in the U.S., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units.  In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods.
Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.  Economic, business and legal environments in foreign markets may be such that we are unable to expand our operations and increase our net sales in those markets as we may want to do and could result in the closure of our existing units in such markets, which closures impede the growth of our international operations.  Finally, some countries have foreign investment laws that prohibit us or limit us from holding a controlling interest in retail operations in those countries, making our entry into those markets, which may present attractive growth opportunities, more difficult, if not impossible.  If we cannot effectively continue to expand our Walmart International segment, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected.
We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified.  Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time.  Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.
Financial Risks
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of
22
operations.  As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, e-commerce growth rates, gross margin, earnings and earnings per share or new store and club openings could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.
Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
We are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa, Central America and Mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in China in addition to our U.S. operations.  During fiscal
2016
, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
26%
of our consolidated net sales.  Our divisions also source goods and services from other countries.  The future expansion of our operations in countries outside the U.S. could result in our international operations accounting for a larger portion of our net sales in future years.  Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
In particular, Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our
23
policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
We are also subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("ASDA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in over 7,000 "equal value" claims that are pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former ASDA store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in ASDA's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in ASDA's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking: (i) back pay consisting of the difference between the wage rate paid in the stores and the rate paid in the warehouses and distribution facilities for the period of their employment up to a maximum of six years under the statute of limitations; and (ii) an increase in the store rate prospectively, to match that paid in the warehouses and the distribution facilities.  On January 30, 2015, the Employment Tribunal held a case management conference in order to set a schedule for addressing jurisdictional challenges and other issues involved in the first phase of the litigation.  At this time, it is undetermined: (i) how many of these claims may ultimately be filed; or (ii) whether the Employment Tribunal will decide to hear each claim individually or to consolidate them into groups of similar claims and proceed with the trial of "test cases."  Determinations made in such test cases, if any, might be asserted as binding in subsequent trials of claims within that group and any subsequent claims involving the same issues.  Moreover, a determination as to the appropriate rate of pay for a particular store position might be asserted as the basis for additional claims for back pay or wage increases by other store associates who perform, or who have performed, like work in that position.
On March 23, 2015, ASDA asked the Employment Tribunal to stay all proceedings, contending that the High Court, which is the superior first instance civil court in the UK that is headquartered in the Royal Courts of Justice in the City of London, is the more convenient and appropriate forum to hear these claims.  On March 23, 2015, ASDA also asked the Employment Tribunal to "strike out" substantially all of the claims for failing to comply with Employment Tribunal rules.  Following argument and appellate proceedings, the claims have remained in the Employment Tribunal.  The issue of stay, strike out, and the scope of Employment Tribunal rules are the subject of further appellate proceedings.  We discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in Note 10 in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
24
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct.  We are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for FCPA compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.  Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC, and we have been informed by the DOJ and the SEC that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the FCPA.  A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review.  Moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $126 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2016 and the costs incurred in prior years) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers.  These matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues.  While we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
25
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam's Clubs located in each state or territory of the U.S. and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31,
2016
in the part of our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Unit Counts as of January 31,
2016
" that is an exhibit hereto and that information is incorporated herein by reference.  The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2016
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
3,934
—
640
—
4,574
Sam's Club retail units
554
—
101
—
655
Total U.S. retail units
4,488
—
741
—
5,229
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
102
2
10
23
137
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
2
16
24
Total U.S. distribution facilities
105
5
12
...
753
39
5,390
International properties
Africa
42
—
...
164
—
395
China
3
—
429
—
432
India
2
—
19
...
289
—
346
Mexico
676
—
1,684
...
188
—
621
Total International retail units
2,100
—
4,199
—
6,299
International distribution facilities
45
11
72
48
176
Total International properties
2,145
11
4,271
48
6,475
Total retail units
6,588
—
4,940
—
11,528
Total distribution facilities
150
16
84
...
5,024
87
11,865
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations and field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "Item 1. Business."
26
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is one of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference in this item.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:
Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart
, Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/7/07; Supreme Ct. of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/9/11; US Supreme Court, Washington, D.C., 3/13/15.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others-Manchester Employment Tribunal).
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in
The New York Times (
the "
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former officers and directors as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of FCPA compliance.  All of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which was consolidated in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas and the other in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  On March 31, 2015, the Western District of Arkansas granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  On April 15, 2015, plaintiffs filed their notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation
, USDC, Western Dist. of AR, 5/31/12; 8th Circuit Ct. of Appeals, St. Louis, MO; 4/15/15;
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Delaware Derivative Litigation,
Delaware Ct. of Chancery, 4/25/12.
27
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
During fiscal year 2015, a California Greenwashing Task Force informed the Company (including one of its subsidiaries) that it was investigating whether the Company and its subsidiary had violated a California statute that prohibits the sale of plastic products labeled by the Company's and its subsidiary's suppliers as "biodegradable" or "compostable."  On January 13, 2016, the Task Force sent the Company and its subsidiary a settlement demand with the following terms: a $1.5 million civil penalty; a restitution program; a compliance program; and investigative costs.  On March 7, 2016, the Company and its subsidiary responded to the offer and are continuing to work with the Task Force towards a resolution.
On April 23, 2015, Wal-Mart Transportation LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, received a Finding and Notice of Violation from the Environmental Protection Agency alleging that Walmart Transportation violated the California Air Resources Board's Truck and Bus regulations by failing to install particulate matter filters on some diesel fuelled vehicles.  The Company is responding to the allegations and is cooperating with the agency.
On April 6, 2015, representatives for the Brazilian Institute of the Environment alleged that WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda ("Walmart Brazil") had failed to file required reports documenting the number of tires imported, sold and recycled.  The agency proposed a penalty of approximately $857,000 and prohibited Walmart Brazil from selling or importing tires until the matter is resolved.  In October 2015, Walmart Brazil filed its defense with the agency against the imposition of this penalty.
In September 2014, a spill of approximately 50 liters of fuel occurred at a store in Lerma, Mexico.  A subsidiary of the Company, Nueva Wal-Mart de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., took steps to address the spill and engaged an expert to oversee the final cleanup.  The Municipality of Lerma proposed a penalty of approximately $128,000 along with the implementation of a monitoring program around the spill area to address the situation.  The Company implemented a monitoring program which concluded that there was no contamination in the spill area and is challenging the penalty in an administrative court.
In February 2014, a division of the Health Department of the City of Vitória notified Walmart Brazil, a subsidiary of the Company, that a wastewater leak had been observed in the parking lot of a store.  Walmart Brazil has been cooperating with the agency and believes that it has addressed the situation.
In January 2014, a division of the State Department of Sustainable Development of Santa Catarina notified Walmart Brazil that a store did not have the proper license for a wastewater treatment system.  Walmart Brazil resolved the matter by paying a penalty of approximately $50,000 and is awaiting the issuance of the license.
In August 2013, the Company received a notice from the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") alleging that two products sold by the Company have exceeded volatile organic chemical limits prescribed in its California Consumer Products Regulations.  The Company is responding to the allegations and cooperating with CARB's investigation.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall seventeen years ago for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank.  The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
In April and May 2011, the Environmental and Natural History Ministry of Chiapas, Mexico ("Ministry") notified a subsidiary of the Company, Arrendadora de Centros Comerciales, S. de R.L. de C.V. ("Arrendadora"), that five stores may have been constructed without first obtaining an environmental impact license as required, and for failing to comply with conditions required by those licenses.  The Ministry proposed a penalty of approximately $178,000 related to such stores and Arrendadora is currently in discussions with the Ministry regarding payment of such amount.  In 2014, the Ministry informed Arrendadora it believed that four additional stores may have been constructed with the same deficiencies.  The Ministry proposed a penalty of approximately $640,000 in respect to such additional stores and also required Arrendadora to obtain the licenses and comply with the required conditions.  Arrendadora was subsequently released by an administrative court from the payment of such penalty.  Arrendadora is in compliance with the conditions required for the licenses of all the foregoing stores.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified Walmart Brazil of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions "Market price of common stock," "Listing" and "Dividends paid per share" in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the U.S. on the New York Stock Exchange.  At
March 28, 2016
, the latest practicable date, there were
243,327
common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors.  On October 13, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors replaced the previous
$15.0 billion
share repurchase program, which had approximately
$8.6 billion
of remaining authorization for share repurchases as of that date, with a new
$20.0 billion
share repurchase program.  As was the case with the replaced share repurchase program, the current share repurchase program has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.  At
January 31, 2016
, authorization for
$17.5 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program, on a trade date basis, for each of the three months in the quarter ended January 31, 2016, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
41,460,076
29
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.  In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures.  Also, we have investments in unconsolidated entities.  Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.  Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, updating existing systems, automating manual processes, migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations and increasing monitoring controls.  These changes have not materially affected, and are not reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  However, they allow us to continue to enhance our internal control over financial reporting and ensure that our internal control environment remains effective.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company's internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Management's Report to Our Shareholders" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting," respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
During the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we identified and disclosed a material weakness in our controls over accounting for leases.  The material weakness in internal control over financial reporting resulted from a lack of controls which allowed for the misinterpretation and historical misapplication of Accounting Standards Codification 840,
Leases
("ASC 840") regarding sale-leaseback accounting, primarily lessee involvement in the construction of leased assets.  Specifically, we did not have adequate controls in place to properly identify and account for leases that were subject to the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, primarily leases in which we made payments for certain structural components included in the lessor's construction of the leased assets, which should have resulted in the Company being deemed the owner of the leased assets for accounting purposes.  To remediate the material weakness described above, we designed and implemented controls and enhanced and revised the design of existing controls and procedures to properly apply sale-leaseback accounting, primarily lessee involvement in the construction of leased assets, under ASC 840.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we successfully completed the testing necessary to conclude that the material weakness has been remediated.
Except as noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2016
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled "Corporate Governance – Proposal No. 1 – Election of Directors" and "Stock Ownership – Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
June 3, 2016
(our "Proxy Statement").
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant," which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC's Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our
2015
Annual Shareholders' Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts and our Codes of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics applicable to all of our associates, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our Controller, who is our principal accounting officer, required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Board Committees" and "Audit Matters – Audit Committee Financial Experts" included in our Proxy Statement.  "Item 1. Business" above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and under the sub-captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation Committee Report" that appear under the caption "Executive Compensation" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" that appear under the caption "Stock Ownership" and all information that appears under the caption "Executive Compensation – Equity Compensation Plan Information" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption "Corporate Governance – Related Person Transactions" and under the caption "Corporate Governance – Director Independence" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
...
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:
1.     Financial Statements:
See the Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.
2.     Financial Statement Schedules:
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(b)
...
By
/s/ Gregory B. Penner
Gregory B. Penner
Chairman of the Board and Director
DATE: March 30, 2016
By
/s/ M. Brett Biggs
...
34
DATE: March 30, 2016
By
/s/ Aida M. Alvarez
Aida M. Alvarez
Director
DATE: March 30, 2016
By
...
Director
DATE: March 30, 2016
By
/s/ Pamela J. Craig
Pamela J. Craig
Director
DATE: March 30, 2016
By
...
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated December 19, 2014, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-201074).
37
10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
(Commission File No. 001-6991)
(1)
10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and effective February 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2013.
10(c)
The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective February 6, 2015, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015, filed on April 1, 2015.
10(d)*
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective March 9, 2007.
10(e)*
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015, as amended and restated effective February 23, 2016.
10(f)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
(Commission File No. 001-6991)
(1)
10(g)
...
(Commission File No. 001-6991)
(1)
10(h)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated effective June 4, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
(Commission File No. 001-6991)
(1)
10(i)
...
10(i).1*
Amended Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete in the form filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.
10(j)*
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, as amended and restated effective February 1, 2016.
10(k)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Performance Unit Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(l)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(m)
Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete between Wal-Mart Canada Corp. and David Cheesewright dated as of January 31, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
10(n)
Retirement Agreement by and between the Company and Charles M. Holley, dated October 8, 2015, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed on October 9, 2015.
10(o)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share-Settled Performance Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions.
10(p)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share-Settled Performance Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (Wal-Mart Canada Corp.-related).
10(q)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award.
10(r)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award.
10(s)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share-Settled Restricted Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (Wal-Mart Canada Corp.-related).
12*
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
13*
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016.  All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, is filed with the SEC.  The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
21*
List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries.
23*
...
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
39
Notes to Exhibit Index:
1.
The exhibits listed in this Exhibit Index and incorporated as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 by reference to an Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company previously filed with the SEC by the Company are available for review online on the EDGAR system of the SEC at www.sec.gov as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K referred to above in the description of the exhibit incorporated by reference.  The historical filings of the Company may be reviewed and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549-2521 under Commission File No. 001-6991.
2.
The Company and its subsidiaries have in the past issued, and may in the future issue from time to time, long-term debt instruments, but the aggregate principal amount of the debt instruments of any one series of such debt instruments has not exceeded or will not exceed 10% of the assets of the Company at any pertinent time.  The Company has previously filed with the SEC its agreement to, and hereby agrees to, file copies of the agreements relating to long-term debt instruments and the instruments representing or evidencing such long-term debt instruments with the SEC upon request.  As a result, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, copies of such long-term debt instruments have not been filed as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016.  The Company has previously filed the documents and instruments establishing the specific terms of long-term debt instruments offered and sold by the Company pursuant to its effective registration statements filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as exhibits to the applicable registration statement or as exhibits to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed in connection with the applicable registration statement and the sale and issuance of those long-term debt instruments.
40
[Total relevant lines: 1116]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2016 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2017-03-31.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f July 31, 2016, th
e aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 29, 2016, was $108,531,045,541.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 3,033,009,079 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 29, 2017
.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2017 (the "Annual Report to Shareholders") included as
Exhibit 13
to this Form 10-K
Parts I and II
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2017 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
2
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our economic performance or results for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future, including, without limitation, our earnings per share, the comparable store and club sales for one or more of our reportable segments, our effective tax rate, the dividends we will pay, our capital structure, the outcome of tax matters, the outcome of, the costs we may incur in connection with, and the liability we may have or not have in, legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are subject, and, on a consolidated basis or for one or more of our reportable segments, the amount of or period-over-period change in total revenue, net sales, membership income, other income, e-commerce sales, gross merchandise value, inventory levels, performance of certain categories of merchandise, capital expenditures, expense items, store and club openings, the amount and nature of capital and operating expenditures and investments, increases in retail square footage, the consummation of acquisitions or dispositions, and other financial measures or metrics.
Our forward-looking statements also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "expectation," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "guidance," "intend," "plan," "priority," "project," "to be," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will increase," "will remain," "will strengthen" and "will stay," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.  The forward-looking statements include statements made in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements and cause our actual results or an actual event or occurrence to differ materially from those results or an event or occurrence described in a forward-looking statement we have made.  These factors, which may be global in their effect or affect only some of the markets in which we operate and which may affect us on a consolidated basis or affect only some of our reportable segments, include, but are not limited to:
Economic Factors
•
economic, geo-political, capital markets and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
...
•
changes in market rates of interest;
•
changes in market levels of wages;
•
changes in the size of various markets, including e-commerce markets;
•
unemployment levels;
•
inflation or deflation, generally and in certain product categories;
•
transportation, energy and utility costs;
•
commodity prices, including the prices of oil and natural gas;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels, and demand for certain merchandise;
•
trends in consumer shopping habits around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
•
new methods for delivery of merchandise purchased to customers:
•
consumer enrollment in health and drug insurance programs and such programs' reimbursement rates and drug formularies; and
•
initiatives of competitors, competitors' entry into and expansion in Walmart's markets, and competitive pressures;
3
Operating Factors
•
the amount of Walmart's net sales and operating expenses denominated in U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies;
•
the financial performance of Walmart and each of its segments, including the amounts of Walmart's cash flow during various periods;
•
the Company's need to repatriate earnings held outside of the U.S.;
•
customer traffic and average ticket in Walmart's stores and clubs and on its e-commerce websites;
•
the mix of merchandise Walmart sells;
•
the availability of goods from suppliers and the cost of goods acquired from suppliers;
•
the effectiveness of the implementation and operation of Walmart's strategies, plans, programs and initiatives;
•
Walmart's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including Jet.com, Inc. ("jet.com");
•
the amount of shrinkage Walmart experiences;
•
consumer acceptance of and response to Walmart's stores and clubs, e-commerce websites, mobile apps, programs and merchandise offerings, including the Walmart U.S. segment's Grocery Pickup program;
•
Walmart's gross profit margins, including pharmacy margins and margins of other product categories;
•
the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
disruption of seasonal buying patterns in Walmart's markets;
•
Walmart's expenditures for FCPA and other compliance-related matters;
•
disruptions in Walmart's supply chain;
•
cybersecurity events affecting Walmart and related costs and impact of any disruption in business;
•
Walmart's labor costs, including healthcare and other benefit costs;
•
Walmart's casualty and accident-related costs and insurance costs;
•
the size of and turnover in Walmart's workforce and the number of associates at various pay levels within that workforce;
•
unexpected changes in Walmart's objectives and plans;
•
the availability of necessary personnel to staff Walmart's stores, clubs and other facilities;
•
the availability of skilled labor in areas in which new units are to be constructed or existing units are to be relocated, expanded or remodeled;
•
delays in the opening of new, expanded or relocated units;
•
developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations to which Walmart is a party or is subject, and the liabilities, obligations and expenses, if any, that Walmart may incur in connection therewith;
•
changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's commercial paper and debt securities by credit rating agencies;
•
Walmart's effective tax rate; and
•
unanticipated changes in accounting judgments and estimates;
Regulatory and Other Factors
•
changes in existing tax, labor and other laws and changes in tax rates, including the enactment of laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations;
•
governmental policies, programs, initiatives and actions in the markets in which Walmart operates and elsewhere;
•
the possibility of the imposition of new taxes on imports and new tariffs and trade restrictions and changes in tariff rates and trade restrictions;
•
changes in currency control laws;
•
the level of public assistance payments;
•
the timing of federal income tax refunds;
•
natural disasters, public health emergencies, civil disturbances, and terrorist attacks; and
•
changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal buying patterns, which patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
4
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The above list of factors that may affect the estimates and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or made on our behalf is not exclusive.  We are subject to other risks and uncertainties discussed below under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and that we may discuss in Management's Discussions and Analyses of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or may otherwise disclose in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements that we make or made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
...
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities.  Through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping and saves time for our customers.  Physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate.  Digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  Each week, we serve over
260 million
customers who visit our
11,695
...
59
banners in
28
countries and e-commerce websites in
11
countries.
Our strategy is to lead on price, differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience.  Leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Price leadership is core to who we are.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers.  Our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere.  We strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2017
("fiscal
2017
...
2015
").  During fiscal
2017
, we generated total revenues of
$485.9 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$481.3 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of
January 31, 2017
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in
27
countries.
In 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website.  Since then, our digital presence has continued to grow.  As of
January 31, 2017
, we operated e-commerce websites in
11
countries, providing access to Walmart and our various brands around the world.
6
Information About Our Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom and retail websites in the U.S. and 10 other countries.  The Company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  The Company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments.  It is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the U.S., Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail.  Walmart U.S. generated approximately
64%
of our net sales in fiscal
2017
, and of our three segments, Walmart U.S. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Walmart International consists of operations in
27
countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs), cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  Walmart International generated approximately
24%
of our fiscal
2017
net sales.  The overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.  Walmart International is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units.
Sam's Club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 47 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico, as well as digital retail.  Sam's Club accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2017
net sales.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart," "Wal-Mart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other digital retail.  The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$307.8 billion
,
$298.4 billion
...
2016
and
2015
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company consolidated net sales.
Physical.
The Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in
49
...
41
states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in
31
states and Puerto Rico.  The following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of
January 31, 2017
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
104,000
Neighborhood Markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
66,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats which include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs.
7
WALMART U.S. SEGMENT
RETAIL UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
415
43,347
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
4,672
699,289
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(2)
Conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
8
Digital.
Walmart U.S. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our e-commerce websites, including walmart.com, jet.com, hayneedle.com and  shoebuy.com, as well as mobile commerce applications.  Walmart.com experiences on average 92 million unique visitors a month and offers access to over 38 million SKUs, including those carried on Marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com.  Walmart.com is also integrated with our physical stores through services like "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today" and "Online Grocery."  The Walmart U.S. segment also offers access to digital content and services including Vudu and InstaWatch.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as on our e-commerce websites.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural & organics, deli & bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home/Seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise).
The Walmart U.S. segment also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
National brand merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "Adventure Force," "AutoDrive," "BlackWeb," "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Kid Connection," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "My Life As," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Prima Della," "Pure Balance," "Sam's Choice," "Special Kitty," "Spring Valley," "Way to Celebrate," and "White Stag."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Danskin Now," "Farberware," "OP," "Russell," "Starter" and "SwissTech."
The percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal
2017
,
2016
...
2017
2016
2015
Grocery
56%
56%
56%
Health and wellness
11%
11%
11%
General merchandise
33%
33%
33%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Many supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are open 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart U.S. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
9
Competition.
The Walmart U.S. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  We also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Savings Catcher, Save Even More and Ad Match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Walmart Pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store.  The merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities;
•
Pickup Today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free.  The order is fulfilled through existing store inventory;
•
Online Grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and
•
Money Back Guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.  In addition, our retail website and mobile commerce applications are important factors in our competition with other retailers, particularly e-commerce retailers.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2017
, approximately
78%
of the Walmart U.S. segment's purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our
147
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet.  However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.
We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers.
The following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and 22 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2017
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
103
2
19
23
147
10
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment consists of operations in
27
countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including Sam's Clubs, cash & carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail.  The segment's net sales for fiscal
2017
,
2016
...
$123.4 billion
and
$136.2 billion
, respectively, which have been impacted by unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Physical.
Our Walmart International segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; and our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua) and Mexico.
Generally, retail units range in size from
8,900
square feet to
185,000
...
35,000
square feet to
70,000
square feet.  Other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in Brazil, Mexico and the United Kingdom, range in size up to
2,400
square feet.  Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit.
WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT
UNIT COUNT
(1)
AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(2)
Africa
Argentina
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
11,770
363
15,260
China
India
Japan
Mexico
(3)
United
Kingdom
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
6,363
376,769
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts and square footage are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2012.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
All periods presented exclude units and square feet for the Vips restaurant business.  The Company completed the sale of the Vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015.
11
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31, 2017
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
4
—
363
China
424
15
—
439
India
—
20
—
...
—
—
341
Mexico
2,241
160
10
...
45
6,363
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2016
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of
January 31, 2017
.
(2)
Other includes drug stores and convenience stores operating under varying banners.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
1
...
4
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
234
), El Salvador (
90
...
) and Nicaragua (
92
).
Digital.
The Walmart International segment operates e-commerce websites in
10
countries (Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom).  Customers have access through our e-commerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country.  Digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in Mexico.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Ol' Roy" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Chosen by You," and "Extra Special."  In addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Walmart International segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate.  We also operate, on a limited basis, consumer credit operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites.  Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which Walmart International operates.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.  In the markets in which we have retail websites or retail websites and mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in our digital and physical retail operations.
12
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
176
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2017
, approximately
82%
of the Walmart International segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  The following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 15 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of December 31, 2016, with the exception of distribution facilities in Canada, which are stated as of
January 31, 2017
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
International distribution facilities
46
11
76
43
176
We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers.
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the U.S. and had net sales of
$57.4 billion
,
$56.8 billion
...
2016
and
2015
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Membership.
The following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers:
Membership Type
Business Plus
Savings Plus
Business
Savings
Member Type
...
Individual
Business Owner
Individual
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$100
$45
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
—
Up to 8
...
Yes
No
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.
Physical.
As a membership-only warehouse club, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between
94,000
and
161,000
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.
SAM'S CLUB SEGMENT
CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET
(1)
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
660
88,376
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Digital.
Sam's Club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  Samsclub.com experiences on average 18.6 million unique visitors a month and offers access to approximately 61,000 SKUs providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "Club Pickup."  Digital retail supports our physical clubs with capabilities like "Scan and Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
13
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label brands such as "Member's Mark" in five merchandise categories, listed below.
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
The percentage of net sales for the Sam's Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal
2017
,
2016
...
2017
2016
2015
Grocery and consumables
59%
59%
57%
Fuel and other categories
20%
20%
23%
...
9%
9%
8%
Technology, office and entertainment
6%
7%
7%
Health and wellness
6%
5%
5%
...
100%
100%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Business Members and Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the co-branded Sam's Club "Cash Back" MasterCard.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
The Sam's Club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco Wholesale, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Sam's Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Savings and Business members.  Our e-commerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2017
, approximately
68%
of the Sam's Club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam's Club segment's
25
dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  The table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including two e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers and two dedicated import facilities, as of
January 31, 2017
.
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
3
16
25
The principal focus of Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
14
Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased by members on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31,
2017
("Annual Report to Shareholders") under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 14 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  Note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.  Such portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the United States, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2017
, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
2.3 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly
1.5 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.8 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good.
On February 19, 2015, the Company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for U.S. associates.  Approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at Walmart U.S. stores and Sam's Clubs received pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016, and in February 2016, approximately 1.2 million full-time and part-time associates at Walmart U.S. stores and Sam's Clubs received pay increases.  Also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure.  These changes give our U.S. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders in Note 12 in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam's Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S.  The Company's medical plan in the U.S. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.
Similarly, in the operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
15
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, beginning in June 2013.  From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
45
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.  From January 2013 to January 2014, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart U.S. and from January 2012 to January 2013, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart U.S.
2016
48
Jacqueline P. Canney
Executive Vice President, Global People, effective August 3, 2015.  From September 2003 to July 2015, she served as the Managing Director of Global Human Resources at Accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services, and outsourcing company.
2015
49
David Cheesewright
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 1, 2014.  From September 2011 to January 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for Walmart International's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Canada region.
2014
54
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 1, 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.  From January 2013 to October 2014, he served as Vice President, Finance Transformation, of Walmart International.  From April 2011 to January 2013, he served as Vice President, International Controller, of Walmart International.
2017
47
Gregory Foran
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  beginning in August 2014.  From May 2014 to August 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region.  From March 2012 to May 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China.  From October 2011 to March 2012, he served as Senior Vice President responsible for various international projects.
2014
55
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2017.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.  From January 2013 to October 2015, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Walmart China. From January 2012 to January 2013 he served as Senior Vice President, Home & Apparel and Global Sourcing.
2017
42
Jeffrey J. Gearhart
...
2013
52
Marc Lore
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. eCommerce, effective upon the Company's acquisition of Jet.com, Inc., an eCommerce retailer, in September 2016.  From April 2014 to September 2016, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Jet.com, Inc.  From January 2005 to July 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Quidsi, Inc., an eCommerce retailer that became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. in April 2011.
2016
45
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2014.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
50
16
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers or our Statement of Ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.
Strategic Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  As a result of these factors, we
17
plan to increase investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives, moderate the number of new store openings and rely to a greater extent on comparable store sales and e-commerce for growth.  Any failure of these investments or initiatives to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or the integration of both), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The retail business is highly competitive.  Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers and wholesale club operators, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers and retail intermediaries.
Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, and e-commerce retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses.
Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, apparel stores, wholesale clubs, cash & carry operations, convenience stores and e-commerce and catalog businesses.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased online, through mobile commerce applications or through the integration of our physical and digital retail operations.
Where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale.  A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
Failure to grow our e-commerce business through the integration of physical and digital retail or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing e-commerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business is quickly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with all retailers and wholesale clubs occurring online and through mobile commerce applications is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate.  We plan to increase our investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives, moderate the number of new store openings and rely to a greater extent on increasing comparable store and club sales and e-commerce sales (which are included in our calculation of comparable store and club sales with the exception of e-commerce acquisitions until such businesses have been owned for 12 months) for growth.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless shopping experience across the physical and digital retail channels and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this
Item 1A
.
Our investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our e-commerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  If we fail to  successfully implement our strategy, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected.  In addition, a greater concentration of e-commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations.
18
In addition, the cost of certain e-commerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred by acquired e-commerce businesses will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
Operational Risks
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our retail websites and mobile commerce applications to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.
These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur, such as Superstorm Sandy in the U.S. in 2012 or the numerous storm systems in the U.S. in recent years, and could adversely affect our financial performance.
In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses.  Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events to the extent they are below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, to the extent they exceed our aggregate limits of applicable coverages.  Significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the U.S., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our brand, reputation and financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is
19
outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe our change management process will mitigate this risk.  If we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through mobile commerce applications with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today" and "Club Pickup" and in a growing number of locations, "Online Grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.
We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and mobile commerce application merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer systems and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired e-commerce businesses, may be subject to cyber-attacks.  Those attacks could involve attempts to gain access to the website or mobile commerce application to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below.  Such attacks, if successful, can also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our retail websites or mobile commerce applications and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience on any of our retail website or mobile commerce applications.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our retail commerce websites and mobile commerce applications and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
20
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our online operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers."  Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  We have in place substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, our information systems and the information stored on such systems.  We also have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers, including cloud service providers, to protect information from our systems which they have access to or hold under their engagements with us.
We constantly monitor developments in cyber threats, evaluate the effectiveness of our information security measures and change such measures or implement new and additional security measures from time to time to address new and different risks to the security of such information and to strengthen our protections for the information stored on our systems.  We require our third-party service providers to do the same.  Nevertheless, as cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.  We or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.
Any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as the American National Standards Institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  Even though we comply with these standards and protocols and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.  In addition, the cost of
21
complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
Changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
The retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments generate substantial net sales, a large majority of which are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment established through contractual relationship with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burden associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations, result in the loss of cross-store or -club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
The wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the U.S. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the U.S. that we announced in February 2015, and related wage increases for 1.2 million associates occurring in February 2016 have increased our wage and other labor expenses significantly.  If we cannot offset the increases in our wage and other labor expenses resulting from those wage increases by increasing our gross profit, achieving decreases in our operating, selling, general and administrative expense or a combination of both, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could continue to be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for our fiscal years prior to fiscal 2017.  In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase even more significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
22
Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations, and the performance of strategic alliances to support the expansion of that segment, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes opening new units and growing comparable stores sales in the countries in which we have existing operations.  Our ability to open new units or to expand or relocate existing units depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.  Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units.
In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods.  Economic, business and legal environments in foreign markets may also limit our ability to expand our operations and increase our net sales in those markets as we may want and could result in the closure of existing units in such markets which may adversely impact our financial results.  If we cannot effectively continue to expand our Walmart International segment through opening new units, growing comparable store sales or selective acquisitions, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected.
Our Walmart International segment may also enter into strategic alliances in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our digital retail operations, physical retail operations or both.  For example, in fiscal 2017, we entered into a strategic alliance with JD.com, Inc. providing for Walmart China to be a preferred retailer on its online-to-offline platform and our Sam's Club business in China to be a flagship store on its marketplace.  Any strategic alliance may not generate the level of e-commerce or other sales we anticipate when entering into that alliance or may otherwise adversely impact our business relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, such as our investment in JD.com, Inc., could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Financial Risks
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
23
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, e-commerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America and Mexico.
In fiscal 2017, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately
76%
of our consolidated net sales.  The Federal Government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs.  Potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S. and the imposition of a border tax, or a border adjustment tax, on imports into the U.S.  A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
During fiscal
2017
, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
24%
of our consolidated net sales.  Our operating segments also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
The potential imposition by the U.S. of a border tax or border adjustment tax, new or higher tariffs or other restrictions on trade discussed above which impact a country in which we have operations could result in actions by that country to impose new, or increase existing tariffs or taxes on products imported into such country from the U.S. or elsewhere and could damage the reputations of U.S.-based companies, including us, with customers and others in that country.  This could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our operations in such country or countries.
Our business and results of operations in the UK may be negatively affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws resulting from the UK's anticipated exit from the European Union.
Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our
24
associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
We are also subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The U.S. Congress and the current federal administration have identified federal tax reform as a priority for 2017.  Federal tax reform plans under consideration may result in significant changes to the U.S. tax code.  Some of the changes contemplated by the U.S. Congress, like the border tax or border adjustment tax, could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate, the amount of our consolidated net taxable income subject to income taxes, and our overall tax liability, and could reduce our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity, even if the changes include a reduction in the rate at which corporate taxable income is taxed.  In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could also be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("ASDA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in nearly 10,000 "equal value" claims pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former ASDA store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in ASDA's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in ASDA's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis.  At present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these proceedings.  We discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in Note 10 in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an
exhibit
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has been conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the FCPA and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Walmex"), and whether prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the Company.  We have also been conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for anti-corruption compliance and are engaged in strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.
Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC.  We have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have begun with them regarding the resolution of these matters.  As discussions regarding resolution are preliminary, we cannot currently predict the timing, the outcome or the impact of a possible resolution of these matters.  A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
25
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and in conducting our review and investigations.
While we believe it is probable we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations we cannot yet reasonably estimate a loss or range of loss that may arise from the conclusion of these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
26
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The number of supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam's Clubs located in each state or territory of the U.S. and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31,
2017
in the part of our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Unit Counts as of January 31,
2017
" that is an
exhibit
hereto and that information is incorporated herein by reference.  The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2017
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,023
—
649
—
4,672
Sam's Club retail units
561
—
99
—
660
Total U.S. retail units
4,584
—
748
—
5,332
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
103
2
19
23
147
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
3
16
25
Total U.S. distribution facilities
106
5
22
...
770
39
5,504
International properties
Africa
39
—
...
143
—
363
China
3
—
436
—
439
India
2
—
18
...
285
—
341
Mexico
698
—
1,713
...
194
—
631
Total International retail units
2,134
—
4,229
—
6,363
International distribution facilities
46
11
76
43
176
Total International properties
2,180
11
4,305
43
6,539
Total retail units
6,718
—
4,977
—
11,695
Total distribution facilities
152
16
98
...
5,075
82
12,043
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations and field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
27
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is one of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference in this item.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in
The New York Times (
the "
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  On September 20, 2016, the court granted plaintiff's motion for class certification.  On October 6, 2016, the defendants filed a petition to appeal the class certification ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On November 7, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit denied the Company's petition.  In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former officers and directors as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with their oversight of FCPA compliance.  All of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which was consolidated in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas and the other in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  On March 31, 2015, the Western District of Arkansas granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  On April 15, 2015, plaintiffs filed their notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On July 22, 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the consolidated derivative proceedings in Arkansas.  There was no appeal from that ruling.  On May 13, 2016, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  On June 10, 2016, plaintiffs in the Delaware consolidated derivative proceedings filed their notice of appeal to the Delaware Supreme Court.  On January 18, 2017, the Delaware Supreme Court remanded those proceedings to the Court of Chancery for further briefing and an additional ruling on due process issues raised by the plaintiffs, before the Delaware Supreme Court renders its ultimate decision on the appeal.  Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR; 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Delaware Derivative Litigation,
Delaware Ct. of Chancery, 4/25/12; Delaware Supreme Court, Dover, DE; 6/10/16.
28
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In November and December 2016, the Environmental and Natural History Ministry of Chiapas, Mexico ("Ministry") notified a subsidiary of the Company, Arrendadora de Centros Comerciales, S. de R.L. de C.V. ("Arrendadora"), that it was proposing aggregated penalties approximating $430,000 in respect to four stores which the Ministry believed may have been constructed without first obtaining a required environmental impact license.  Arrendadora has challenged the penalties before an administrative court and the trials are in process.  The Ministry had previously proposed penalties of approximately $640,000 related to this matter in 2014, but Arrendadora was released by an administrative court from payment of such penalties on the basis that the Ministry had failed to comply with legal formalities in connection with their imposition.
In November 2016, the state environmental agency in Santa Catarina, Brazil imposed aggregate penalties of approximately $180,000 against WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda ("Walmart Brazil") related to the fuel station at its store in Posto Camboriú.  Such amount includes penalties related to a fuel tank leak and for operation of the fuel station in non-compliance with its license from 2009-2013 and without a license commencing in 2013.  These matters had been self-reported by Walmart Brazil to the environmental agency following an internal licensure review.  Walmart Brazil has filed its defense with the agency against the imposition of these penalties as well as its remediation plans and has been monitoring the underground water for contamination.  Following the filing of that defense, in March 2017 the environmental agency reduced the aggregate penalties to approximately $90,000 which amount has been paid by Walmart Brazil.
During fiscal year 2015, a California Greenwashing Task Force informed the Company that it was investigating whether the Company had violated a California statute that prohibits the sale of plastic products labeled by the Company's suppliers as "biodegradable" or "compostable."  In January 2017, the Company entered into a settlement agreement under which it agreed to pay approximately $950,000.  The Company also agreed to abide by a permanent injunction requiring compliance with California's laws related to the sale of products labeled "biodegradable," "degradable," "compostable," or "decomposable."
On April 23, 2015, Wal-Mart Transportation LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, received a Finding and Notice of Violation from the Environmental Protection Agency alleging that Walmart Transportation violated the California Air Resources Board's Truck and Bus regulations by failing to install particulate matter filters on some diesel fueled vehicles.  The Company responded and is in settlement negotiations with the agency.
On April 6, 2015, representatives for the Brazilian Institute of the Environment alleged that Walmart Brazil had failed to file required reports documenting the number of tires imported, sold and recycled.  The agency proposed a penalty of approximately $857,000, which may be doubled and excludes additional amounts in respect of inflation and interest, and prohibited Walmart Brazil from selling or importing tires until the matter is resolved.  In October 2015, Walmart Brazil filed its defense with the agency against the imposition of this penalty.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall seventeen years ago for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank.  The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified Walmart Brazil of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
...
PART II
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions "Market price of common stock," "Listing," "Dividends paid per share" and "Stock Performance Chart" in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Our common stock is primarily traded in the U.S. on the New York Stock Exchange.  At
March 29, 2017
, the latest practicable date, there were
236,471
common stock shareholders of record.
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  The current
$20.0 billion
share repurchase program has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which we can make share repurchases.  At
January 31, 2017
, authorization for
$9.2 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program, on a trade date basis, for each of the three months in the quarter ended January 31, 2017, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
30,213,050
30
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "Market Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions "Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 9.
...
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.  In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures.  Also, we have investments in unconsolidated entities.  Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
In the ordinary course of business, we review our internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.  Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, updating existing systems, automating manual processes, migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations and increasing monitoring controls.  These changes have not materially affected, and are not reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  However, they allow us to continue to enhance our internal control over financial reporting and ensure that our internal control environment remains effective.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.  Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC's rules and forms.
Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company's internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Management's Report to Our Shareholders" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting," respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders.  Such information is included in
Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
...
PART III
ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information required by this item with respect to the Company's directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company's directors, executive officers and certain beneficial owners of the Company's common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled "Proposal No. 1 – Election of Directors" and "Stock Ownership – Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
June 2, 2017
(our "Proxy Statement").
Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Executive Officers of the Registrant
," which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC's Regulation S-K.
No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our
2016
Annual Shareholders' Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.
The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts and our Codes of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics applicable to all of our associates, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our Controller, who is our principal accounting officer, required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Board Committees" and "Proposal No. 4: Ratification of Independent Accountants – Audit Committee Independence and Financial Expert Determination" included in our Proxy Statement.  "
Item 1. Business
" above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.
ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions "Corporate Governance – Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and under the sub-captions "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Compensation Committee Report" that appear under the caption "Executive Compensation" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions "Holdings of Major Shareholders" and "Holdings of Officers and Directors" that appear under the caption "Stock Ownership" and all information that appears under the caption "Executive Compensation Tables – Equity Compensation Plan Information" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption "Corporate Governance – Fiscal 2017 Review of Related Person Transactions" and under the caption "Corporate Governance – How We Determine Director Independence" included in our Proxy Statement.
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
...
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:
1.     Financial Statements:
See the Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders filed as
Exhibit 13
hereto.
2.     Financial Statement Schedules:
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The required exhibits are included at the end of the Form 10-K or are incorporated herein by reference and are described in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the first exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(b)
...
By
/s/ Gregory B. Penner
Gregory B. Penner
Chairman of the Board and Director
Date:  March 31, 2017
By
/s/ M. Brett Biggs
...
Director
Date:  March 31, 2017
By
/s/ Pamela J. Craig
Pamela J. Craig
Director
Date:  March 31, 2017
By
...
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated December 19, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-201074).
37
10(a)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
(1)
10(b)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and effective February 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2013.
(1)
10(c)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2016 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective April 1, 2016, is incorporated herein by reference to Annex B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company's Schedule 14A filed on April 20, 2016.
(1)
10(d)*
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015, as amended and restated effective February 23, 2016 and amended further as of February 1, 2017.
10(e)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.
(1)
10(f)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated effective June 4, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
(1)
10(g)
Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.
...
10(g).1*
Amended Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete in the form filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.
10(h)
Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, as amended and restated effective February 1, 2016, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, filed on March 30, 2016.
(1)
10(i)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Performance Unit Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
(1)
10(j)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
(1)
10(k)
Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete between Wal-Mart Canada Corp. and David Cheesewright dated as of January 31, 2014, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, filed on March 21, 2014.
...
Retirement Agreement between the Company and Rosalind G. Brewer dated January 5, 2017, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated January 5, 2017.
(1)
10(n)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share-Settled Performance Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (Wal-Mart Canada Corp.-related - January 2016 annual award to David B Cheesewright) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, filed on March 30, 2016.
(1)
10(o)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award (January 2016 annual award - executive officers other than David Cheesewright) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, filed on March 30, 2016.
(1)
10(p)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award (January 2016 award to Neal Ashe and Greg Foran) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, filed on March 30, 2016.
(1)
38
10(q)
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share-Settled Restricted Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (Wal-Mart Canada Corp.-related - January 2016 annual award to David Cheesewright) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, filed on March 30, 2016.
(1)
10(r)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Restricted Stock Award and Notification and Terms and Conditions of Award (January 2017 annual award - executive officers other than David Cheesewright).
10(s)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Share Settled Restricted Stock Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (January 2017 annual award - David Cheesewright).
10(t)*
Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2015 Global Share-Settled Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions (January 2017 annual award - all executive officers).
10(u)
Share Settled Restricted Stock Unit Notification and Terms and Conditions Awarded to Marc Lore on September 19, 2016, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2016, filed on December 1, 2016.
(1)
...
10(w)*
Amendment to Deferred Contingent Merger Consideration Agreement dated September 12, 2016, between the Company and Marc Lore.
10(x)*
Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and No-Hire Agreement between the Company and Marc Lore dated September 19, 2016.
12.1
*
Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.
13
*
Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017.  All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017, is filed with the SEC.  The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.
21
*
List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries.
...
101.INS*
XBRL Instance Document.
101.SCH*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
101.CAL*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
101.DEF*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
101.LAB*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
101.PRE*
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
*
Filed herewith as an Exhibit.
**
...
39
Notes to Exhibit Index:
1.
The exhibits listed in this Exhibit Index and incorporated as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 by reference to an Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company previously filed with the SEC by the Company are available for review online on the EDGAR system of the SEC at www.sec.gov as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K referred to above in the description of the exhibit incorporated by reference.  The historical filings of the Company may be reviewed and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549-2521 under Commission File No. 001-6991.
2.
The Company and its subsidiaries have in the past issued, and may in the future issue from time to time, long-term debt instruments, but the aggregate principal amount of the debt instruments of any one series of such debt instruments has not exceeded or will not exceed 10% of the assets of the Company at any pertinent time.  The Company has previously filed with the SEC its agreement to, and hereby agrees to, file copies of the agreements relating to long-term debt instruments and the instruments representing or evidencing such long-term debt instruments with the SEC upon request.  As a result, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, copies of such long-term debt instruments have not been filed as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017.  The Company has previously filed the documents and instruments establishing the specific terms of long-term debt instruments offered and sold by the Company pursuant to its effective registration statements filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as exhibits to the applicable registration statement or as exhibits to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed in connection with the applicable registration statement and the sale and issuance of those long-term debt instruments.
40
[Total relevant lines: 1225]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2017 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2018-03-30.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company.  See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f
July 31, 2017, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2017, was $114,770,199,895.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had 2,950,696,818 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 28, 2018
.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 30, 2018 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
7
Item 1A
Risk Factors
17
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
31
Item 6
Selected Financial Data
33
Item 7
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
49
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
51
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
87
Item 11
Executive Compensation
87
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
87
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
87
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31,
2018
On February 1, 2018, the legal name of our corporation became "Walmart Inc.," changing from "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc."  All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on May 30, 2018 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc." prior to February 1, 2018 and named "Walmart Inc." commencing on February 1, 2018 and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements relate to:
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•
the amount, number, growth or increase, in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, including as adjusted for certain items, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types, new store openings and investments in particular formats;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our plans to increase investments in eCommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives, such as online grocery locations;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates and fuel prices affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund and finance our operations, expansion activities, dividends and share repurchases, to meet our cash needs and to fund our domestic operations without repatriating earnings we hold outside of the United States;
•
our intention to reinvest the earnings we hold outside of the United States in our foreign operations and certain laws, other limitations and potential taxes on anticipated future repatriations of such earnings not materially affecting our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations;
•
the insignificance of ineffective hedges and reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings to which we are subject; or
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected,"
4
"may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.  The forward-looking statements include statements made in
Part I, Item 3.
"Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as to our belief that the possible loss or range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with certain legal proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements and cause our actual results or an actual event or occurrence to differ materially from those results or an event or occurrence described in a forward-looking statement.  These risks, factors and uncertainties, which may be global in their effect or affect only some of the markets in which we operate and which may affect us on a consolidated basis or affect only some of our reportable segments, include, but are not limited to:
Economic Factors
•
economic, geo-political, capital markets and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
...
•
changes in market rates of interest;
•
changes in market levels of wages;
•
changes in the size of various markets, including eCommerce markets;
•
unemployment levels;
•
inflation or deflation, generally and in certain product categories;
•
transportation, energy and utility costs;
•
commodity prices, including the prices of oil and natural gas;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels, and demand for certain merchandise;
•
trends in consumer shopping habits around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
•
consumer enrollment in health and drug insurance programs and such programs' reimbursement rates and drug formularies; and
•
initiatives of competitors, competitors' entry into and expansion in Walmart's markets, and competitive pressures;
Operating Factors
•
the amount of Walmart's net sales and operating expenses denominated in U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies;
•
the financial performance of Walmart and each of its segments, including the amounts of Walmart's cash flow during various periods;
•
Walmart's need to repatriate earnings held outside of the U.S. and changes in U.S. and international tax regulations;
•
customer traffic and average ticket in Walmart's stores and clubs and on its eCommerce platforms;
•
the mix of merchandise Walmart sells and its customers purchase;
•
the availability of goods from suppliers and the cost of goods acquired from suppliers;
•
the effectiveness of the implementation and operation of Walmart's strategies, plans, programs and initiatives;
•
Walmart's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including within the eCommerce space;
•
the amount of shrinkage Walmart experiences;
•
consumer acceptance of and response to Walmart's stores and clubs, digital platforms, programs, merchandise offerings and delivery methods;
•
Walmart's gross profit margins, including pharmacy margins and margins of other product categories;
•
the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
disruption of seasonal buying patterns in Walmart's markets;
•
Walmart's expenditures for Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other compliance-related matters including the adequacy of our accrual for the FCPA matter;
•
disruptions in Walmart's supply chain;
•
cybersecurity events affecting Walmart and related costs and impact of any disruption in business;
•
Walmart's labor costs, including healthcare and other benefit costs;
•
Walmart's casualty and accident-related costs and insurance costs;
•
the size of and turnover in Walmart's workforce and the number of associates at various pay levels within that workforce;
•
the availability of necessary personnel to staff Walmart's stores, clubs and other facilities;
5
•
unexpected changes in Walmart's objectives and plans;
•
developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations to which Walmart is a party or is subject, and the liabilities, obligations and expenses, if any, that Walmart may incur in connection therewith;
•
changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's commercial paper and debt securities by credit rating agencies;
•
Walmart's effective tax rate; and
•
unanticipated changes in accounting judgments and estimates;
Regulatory and Other Factors
•
changes in existing tax, labor and other laws and changes in tax rates, including the enactment of laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations;
•
adoption or creation of new, and modification of existing, governmental policies, programs and initiatives in the markets in which Walmart operates and elsewhere and actions with respect to such policies, programs and initiatives;
•
the possibility of the imposition of new taxes on imports and new tariffs and trade restrictions and changes in tariff rates and trade restrictions;
•
changes in currency control laws;
•
changes in the level of public assistance payments;
•
the timing of federal income tax refunds;
•
natural disasters, public health emergencies, civil disturbances, and terrorist attacks; and
•
changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal buying patterns, which patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The above list of factors that may affect the estimates and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or made on our behalf is not exclusive.  We are subject to other risks discussed under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors," and that we may discuss in Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in risks that may be discussed under "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or may otherwise be disclosed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements that we make or are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
6
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Each week, we serve nearly
270 million
customers who visit our more than
11,700
stores and numerous eCommerce websites under
65
banners in
28
countries.
Our strategy is to lead on price, invest to differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience.  Leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Price leadership is core to who we are.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers.  Our omni-channel presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere.  We strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2018
("fiscal
2018
...
2016
").  During fiscal
2018
, we generated total revenues of
$500.3 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$495.8 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.
In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of
January 31, 2018
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in
27
countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating walmart.com.  That same year, we also created samsclub.com.  Since then, our digital presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  In 2016, we acquired jet.com in the U.S. and formed a strategic alliance with JD.com in China.  Subsequent to the jet.com purchase, we have acquired several other U.S. eCommerce entities.  In 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping on more than 2 million items and we created Store N
o
8, a tech incubator with a focus to drive commerce forward.  These eCommerce efforts have led to omni-channel offerings in many markets, including over 1,100 "Online Grocery" pickup locations in the U.S.
Information About Our Segments
The Company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce websites, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.  The Company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  The Company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments.  It is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the U.S., Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with three primary store formats, as well as eCommerce.  Walmart U.S. generated approximately
64%
of our net sales in fiscal
2018
, and of our three segments, Walmart U.S. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Walmart International consists of operations in
27
countries outside of the U.S. and is divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce.  Walmart International generated
7
approximately
24%
of our fiscal
2018
net sales.  The overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.  Walmart International is our second largest segment.
Sam's Club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico, as well as eCommerce.  Sam's Club accounted for approximately
12%
of our fiscal
2018
net sales.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
The Walmart U.S. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart," "Wal-Mart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands.  The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of
$318.5 billion
,
$307.8 billion
...
2017
and
2016
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company consolidated net sales.
Physical.
Walmart U.S. operates retail stores in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, with supercenters in
49
...
41
states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in
36
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico.  The following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of
January 31, 2018
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood Markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
The following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet by format for the fiscal years shown:
Supercenters
Discount Stores
Fiscal Year
...
400
41,926
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened
Closed
...
(1)
Conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
(2)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
(3)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or Neighborhood Markets to supercenters.
Digital.
Walmart U.S. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our eCommerce family of brands' websites and third party retail partnership channels, as well as through related mobile commerce and voice-activated commerce applications.  Our eCommerce family of brands includes walmart.com, jet.com, hayneedle.com, shoes.com, moosejaw.com, modcloth.com and bonobos.com.  Walmart.com offers access to nearly 75 million SKUs, including those carried on Marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com.  Walmart.com is also integrated with our physical stores through
8
services like "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today" and in over 1,100 "Online Grocery" pickup locations to provide an omni-channel offering to our customers.  Walmart U.S. also offers access to digital content and services including Vudu.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats, as well as on our eCommerce websites.
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural & organics, deli & bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home/Seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise).
Walmart U.S. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "Adventure Force," "AutoDrive," "BlackWeb," "Equate," "Everstart," "Faded Glory," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Kid Connection," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "My Life As," "No Boundaries," "Ol' Roy," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Prima Della," "Pure Balance," "Sam's Choice," "Special Kitty," "Spring Valley," "Terra & Sky," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Farberware," "Russell" and "SwissTech."
The percentage of strategic merchandise unit net sales for Walmart U.S., including online sales, was as follows for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
2018
2017
2016
Grocery
56%
56%
56%
Health and wellness
11%
11%
11%
General merchandise
33%
33%
33%
...
100%
100%
100%
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Many supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are open 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our eCommerce websites and mobile commerce applications.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S.
competes with both physical retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
We also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
9
•
Rollbacks: our commitment to pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;
•
Savings Catcher, Save Even More and Ad Match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price;
•
Walmart Pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store.  The merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities;
•
Pickup Today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free.  The order is fulfilled through existing store inventory;
•
Online Grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and
•
Money Back Guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied.
We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.  In addition, our eCommerce capabilities, including omni-channel transactions that involve both an eCommerce platform and a physical format, are important factors in our competition with other retailers.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2018
, approximately
78%
of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our
157
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.
We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 30 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers.
The following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2018
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
103
2
23
29
157
Walmart International Segment
The Walmart International segment consists of operations in
27
countries outside of the U.S. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories, including eCommerce, consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry.  The segment's net sales for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
$116.1 billion
and
$123.4 billion
, respectively, which have been impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Physical.
Walmart International includes physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom; and our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua) and Mexico.
Generally, retail units range in size from
8,900
square feet to
186,000
...
35,000
square feet to
185,000
square feet.  Other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in Brazil, Mexico and the United Kingdom, range in size up to
2,400
square feet.  Also, on a limited basis, Walmart International operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit.
10
The following table provides the retail unit count
(1)
and retail square feet
(2)
for the fiscal years shown:
Africa
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
12,448
378
15,990
China
India
Japan
Mexico
(3)
United
Kingdom
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
6,360
373,281
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts and square footage are stated as of January 31.  For the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2013.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
All periods presented exclude units and square feet for the Vips restaurant business.  The Company completed the sale of the Vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015.
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31, 2018
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
5
—
378
China
424
19
—
443
India
—
20
—
...
—
—
336
Mexico
2,186
162
10
...
50
6,360
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31,
2017
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of
January 31, 2018
.
(2)
Other includes drug stores and convenience stores.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
2
...
6
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
247
), El Salvador (
95
...
) and Nicaragua (
95
).
Digital.
Walmart International operates eCommerce websites in numerous countries.  Customers have access through our eCommerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country.  Our omni-channel offerings include capabilities like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom and our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Ol' Roy" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Chosen by You" and "Extra Special."  In addition, we have developed relationships with
11
regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
Walmart International
competes with both physical retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
We also operate, on a limited basis, consumer credit operations.  We compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated units.  Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which Walmart International operates.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.  In the markets in which we have eCommerce websites or mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in our digital and physical retail operations.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
188
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2018
, approximately
83%
of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  The following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 17 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of December 31, 2017, with the exception of distribution facilities in Canada, which are stated as of
January 31, 2018
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
International distribution facilities
43
12
87
46
188
We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers.
Sam's Club Segment
The Sam's Club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the U.S. and had net sales of
$59.2 billion
,
$57.4 billion
...
2017
and
2016
, respectively.  During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.
Membership.
Beginning in the year ending January 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019"), Sam's Club simplified the membership program.  The following two options are available to members:
Membership Type
Plus
Club
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
Eligible for Cash Rewards
...
Eligible for Free Shipping
Yes
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.  Plus Members are also eligible for Free Shipping on the vast majority of merchandise available online, with no minimum order size.  Free Shipping is yet another example of creating a new Sam's Club for our members.
12
Physical.
As a membership-only warehouse club, Sam's Club facility sizes generally range between
94,000
and
168,000
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.
The following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet for the fiscal years shown
:
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
597
80,068
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the fiscal years shown.  Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
Digital.
Sam's Club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  Samsclub.com experiences on average 20.4 million unique visitors a month and offers access to approximately 59,000 SKUs providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "Club Pickup."  Digital retail supports our physical clubs with capabilities like "Scan and Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
The Member's Mark brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value.  In fiscal
2018
, Member's Mark sales exceeded $10 billion, driven by growth in grocery, seasonal items and apparel.  The percentage of net sales for Sam's Club, including eCommerce sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
2018
2017
2016
Grocery and consumables
58%
59%
59%
Fuel and other categories
21%
20%
20%
...
9%
9%
9%
Technology, office and entertainment
6%
6%
7%
Health and wellness
6%
6%
5%
...
100%
100%
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the co-branded Sam's Club "Cash Back" MasterCard.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as digital retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce
13
applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2018
, approximately
68%
of Sam's Club's non-fuel purchases were shipped from Sam's Club's
22
dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  The following table provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including two dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and two dedicated import facilities, as of
January 31, 2018
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
3
13
22
The principal focus of Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased by members on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Other Segment Information
Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in
Part II, Item 7
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in
Note 15
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 15
also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the United States, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2018
, Walmart Inc. and our subsidiaries employed approximately
2.3 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with
1.5 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.8 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good and are continuing to improve.  A large number of associates turn over each year, although Walmart U.S. turnover has been improving in fiscal 2018 as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates.
14
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S., we offer a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates.  These include a store discount card or Sam's Club membership, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  In addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S., as announced in January 2018, we expanded maternity leave and implemented a new paid parental leave program to all full-time associates.  We also introduced a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption.
Similarly, in the operations outside the U.S., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
15
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013.  From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
46
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.  From January 2013 to January 2014, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart U.S.
2016
49
Jacqueline P. Canney
Executive Vice President, Global People, effective August 3, 2015.  From September 2003 to July 2015, she served as the Managing Director of Global Human Resources at Accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company.
2015
50
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 1, 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.  From January 2013 to October 2014, he served as Vice President, Finance Transformation, of Walmart International.
2017
48
Gregory Foran
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  effective August 2014.  From May 2014 to August 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region.  From March 2012 to May 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China.
2014
56
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 1, 2017.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.  From January 2013 to October 2015, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Walmart China.
2017
43
Marc Lore
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. eCommerce, effective September 2016.  From April 2014 to September 2016, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Jet.com, Inc.  From January 2005 to July 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Quidsi, Inc., an eCommerce retailer that became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. in April 2011.
2016
46
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 1, 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.  Prior to that position, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer for Walmart U.S. from April 2014 to February 2015; as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Development, for Walmart International, from April 2013 to April 2014; and as Chief Operating Officer of Asda Group Limited, the Company's subsidiary in the United Kingdom, from July 2011 to April 2013.
2018
51
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2014.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
51
New Executive Officer
Effective April 2, 2018, Rachel Brand, age 44, will join the Company as Executive Vice President, Global Governance and Corporate Secretary.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.  From January 2017 to May 2017, she was an Associate Professor of Law at George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School.  Prior to that position, she served as a Board Member on the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board of the U.S. government from August 2012 to February 2017.
16
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers or our Statement of Ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.
Strategic Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or the integration of both), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical and digital retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries.
Our Walmart U.S. segment
competes with both physical retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as digital retailers and catalog businesses.
17
Our Walmart International segment
competes with both physical retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through the
omni-channel integration of
our
physical and digital retail
operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital platforms or through the combination of both.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
Failure to grow our eCommerce business through the
omni-channel integration of
physical and digital retail
or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing eCommerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this
Item 1A
.  As a result, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations.
Furthermore, the cost of certain eCommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred by acquired eCommerce businesses will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
The performance of strategic alliances to support the expansion of our Walmart International segment could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our Walmart International segment may enter into strategic alliances in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our digital retail operations, physical retail operations or both.  Any strategic alliance may not generate the level of eCommerce or other sales we anticipate when entering into that alliance or may otherwise adversely impact our
18
business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the U.S., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our brand, reputation and financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.
19
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our eCommerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Many of our customers shop with us using our digital platforms, which are a part of our omni-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through digital platforms with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today" and "Club Pickup" and, in a growing number of locations, "Online Grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. (whether through organic growth or eCommerce acquisitions) and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.
We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, may be subject to cyber-attacks.  Those attacks could involve attempts to gain access to one of our eCommerce websites or mobile commerce applications to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below.  Such attacks, if successful, can also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
20
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers."  Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  As cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.  We or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.
Any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
Changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments and a large majority of the retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes
21
in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations, result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth
22
rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.  Additionally, failure of Walmart's performance to match that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America and Mexico.
In fiscal 2018, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately
76%
of our consolidated net sales.  The Federal Government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs.  Potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S.  A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
During fiscal 2018, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
24%
of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also sources goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
Our business and results of operations in the UK may be negatively affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws resulting from the UK's anticipated exit from the European Union.
Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being
23
lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law.  Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and creates new taxes focused on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments.  In addition, the Company was subject to a one-time transition tax in fiscal 2018 on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax.  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") on December 22, 2017, which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the Company made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of January 31, 2018, in accordance with SAB 118.  As the Company collects and prepares necessary data, and interprets the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, the Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts during fiscal 2019.  Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made and could impact our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity.
We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.  Our pharmacy operations in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements.  The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Affordable Care Act or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the "DEA"), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services.
For example, in the United States the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances.  The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters, as well as employee benefit, competition, anti-money laundering, antitrust matters and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the United States.  Changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures.  Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties.  Any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial
24
exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("ASDA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in over 10,000 "equal value" claims pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former ASDA store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in ASDA's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in ASDA's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis.  At present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these proceedings.
In December 2017, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation consolidated numerous lawsuits filed against a wide array of defendants by various plaintiffs, including counties, cities, healthcare providers, Native American tribes, individuals, and third-party payors, asserting claims generally concerning the impacts of widespread opioid abuse.  The consolidated multidistrict litigation is entitled
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804)
, and is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.  The Company is named as a defendant in some of the cases included in this multidistrict litigation, including cases filed by several counties in West Virginia; by healthcare providers in Mississippi, Alabama, Texas, and Florida; and by the St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin.  Similar cases that name the Company have been filed in state courts by various counties and municipalities; by health care providers; and by various Native American Tribes.  At present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims.
We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
...
Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has been conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the FCPA and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Walmex"), and whether prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the Company.  We have also been conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for anti-corruption compliance and are engaged in strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.
Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC.  We have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have been ongoing with them regarding the resolution of these matters.  These discussions have progressed to a point that we can now reasonably estimate a probable loss and have recorded an aggregate accrual of $283 million with respect to these matters (the "Accrual").
A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in
25
connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and in conducting our review and investigations.
While we have made an Accrual for these matters, because the discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of the final resolution of these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of
January 31, 2018
, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
35
24
215
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
11
25
192
Indiana
97
7
11
...
34
14
139
Maine
19
3
—
...
—
7
70
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
597
5,358
27
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of
January 31, 2018
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
5
—
378
China
424
19
—
443
India
—
20
—
...
—
—
336
Mexico
2,186
162
10
...
—
25
642
International total
5,945
365
50
6,360
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2017, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are stated as of
January 31, 2018
.
(2)
Other includes drug stores and convenience stores.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
2
...
6
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
247
), El Salvador (
95
...
) and Nicaragua (
95
).
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of
January 31, 2018
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,066
—
695
—
4,761
Sam's Club retail units
512
—
85
—
597
Total U.S. retail units
4,578
—
780
—
5,358
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
103
2
23
29
157
Sam's Club distribution facilities
3
3
3
13
22
Total U.S. distribution facilities
106
5
26
...
806
42
5,537
International properties
Africa
39
—
...
150
—
378
China
3
—
440
—
443
India
2
—
18
...
280
—
336
Mexico
669
—
1,689
...
200
—
642
Total International retail units
2,142
—
4,218
—
6,360
International distribution facilities
43
12
87
46
188
Total International properties
2,185
12
4,305
46
6,548
Total retail units
6,720
—
4,998
—
11,718
Total distribution facilities
149
17
113
...
5,111
88
12,085
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our
28
stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is included in
Part II, Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
National Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804); Lac Courte Oreilles Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
WI Circuit Court, Sawyer County, 3/16/18;
ApolloMD Bus. Servs., LLC v. Attain Med, Inc., et al.,
GA State Ct., Fulton Cty., 3/8/2018;
Center Point, Inc. v. McKesson Corp., et al,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 3/6/2018;
Cty. of Greenville v. Rite Aid of S.C., Inc., et al.
, SC Ct. of Common Pleas, 13th Judicial Dist., 3/5/2018;
Big Sandy Rancheria of W. Mono Indians v. McKesson Corp., et al.
, CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 3/2/2018;
Consolidated Tribal Health Project, Inc. v. McKesson Corp.
, et al., CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 3/2/2018;
Robinson Rancheria v.McKesson Corp., et al.
, CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 3/2/2018;
Round Valley Indian Tribes; Round Valley Indian Health Center, Inc. v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 3/2/2018;
Hopland Band of Pomo Indians v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 2/21/2018;
Redwood Valley or Little River Band of Pomo Indians of Redwood Valley Rancheria v. McKesson Corp., et al.
, CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 2/21/2018;
Scotts Valley Band of Pomo Indians v. McKesson Corp., et al.
, CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 2/21/2018;
Big Valley Band of Pomo Indians of the Big Valley Rancheria v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County, 2/13/2018;
Guidiville Rancheria of Cal. v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County
...
2/13/2018;
Odyssey House La., Inc. v. Morris & Dickson Co., et al.
, LA Civil Dist. Ct., New Orleans Parish, 2/6/2018;
Coyote Valley Band of Pomo Indians v. McKesson Corp., et al.,
CA Superior Ct., San Francisco County,
1/29/2018;
Cty. Comm'n of Mingo Cty. v. Purdue Pharma, L.P., et al.,
...
WV Circuit Ct., Marshall County, 12/13/2017;
Wetzel Cty. Comm'n v. Purdue Pharma L.P., et al.,
WV Circuit Ct., Marshall County, 12/13/2017.
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in several lawsuits in which the complaints closely track the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in
The New York Times (
the "
Times
"
)
on April 21, 2012.  One of these is a securities lawsuit that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and seeks damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  On September 20, 2016, the court granted plaintiff's motion for class certification.  On October 6, 2016, the defendants filed a petition to appeal the class certification ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On November 7, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit denied the Company's petition.
In addition, a number of derivative complaints have been filed in Delaware and Arkansas, also tracking the allegations of the
Times
story, and naming various current and former directors and certain former officers as additional defendants.  The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants who are or were directors or officers of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in connection with their oversight of FCPA compliance.  All of the derivative suits have been combined into two consolidated proceedings, one of which was consolidated
29
in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas and the other in the Delaware Court of Chancery.  On March 31, 2015, the Western District of Arkansas granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  On April 15, 2015, plaintiffs filed their notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On July 22, 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the consolidated derivative proceedings in Arkansas.  There was no appeal from that ruling.  On May 13, 2016, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted the defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated derivative proceedings in that court.  On June 10, 2016, plaintiffs in the Delaware consolidated derivative proceedings filed their notice of appeal to the Delaware Supreme Court.  On January 25, 2018, the Delaware Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal of the consolidated derivative proceedings in Delaware.
Management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with these proceedings will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Securities Class Action:
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
USDC, Western Dist. of AR; 5/7/12.
Derivative Lawsuits:
In re Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Delaware Derivative Litigation,
Delaware Ct. of Chancery, 4/25/12; Delaware Supreme Court, Dover, DE; 6/10/16.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
On January 25, 2018, the Environmental Prosecutor of the State of Chiapas (Procuraduría Ambiental del Estado de Chiapas) in Mexico imposed a fine of $163,000 for the absence of an Environmental Impact Authorization License related to the store Mi Bodega Las Rosas.  The Company plans to challenge the fine before an administrative court.
In May 2017, WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda ("Walmart Brazil") self-reported to the relevant municipal environmental agency, and proposed a remediation plan for, an oil contamination in the soil and underground water at the Walmart and Sam's Club store location in Barueri, São Paulo (Tamboré), which contamination had been confirmed by an internal investigation in April 2017.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency, including seeking authorization to start a remediation plan.
In April 2017, the California Air Resources Board ("ARB") notified the Company that it had taken the position that retailers are required to use unclaimed deposits collected on sales of small containers of automotive refrigerant to fund certain consumer education programs.  The ARB alleged that the Company had improperly retained approximately $4.2 million in unclaimed deposits and has sought reimbursement.  The Company has denied any wrongdoing.
In November and December 2016, the Environmental and Natural History Ministry of Chiapas, Mexico ("Ministry") notified a subsidiary of the Company, Arrendadora de Centros Comerciales, S. de R.L. de C.V. ("Arrendadora"), that it was proposing aggregated penalties approximating $430,000 in respect to four stores which the Ministry believed may have been constructed without first obtaining a required environmental impact license.  Arrendadora has challenged the penalties before an administrative court and the trials are in process.  The Ministry had previously proposed penalties of approximately $640,000 related to this matter in 2014, but Arrendadora was released by an administrative court from payment of such penalties on the basis that the Ministry had failed to comply with legal formalities in connection with their imposition.
On April 6, 2015, representatives for the Brazilian Institute of the Environment alleged that Walmart Brazil had failed to file required reports documenting the number of tires imported, sold and recycled.  The agency proposed a penalty of approximately $857,000, which may be doubled and excludes additional amounts in respect of inflation and interest, and prohibited Walmart Brazil from selling or importing tires until the matter is resolved.  In October 2015, Walmart Brazil filed its defense with the agency against the imposition of this penalty.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall seventeen years ago for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank.  The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
In January 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified Walmart Brazil of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil.  Walmart Brazil is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney's Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
...
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Market for Common Stock
Walmart's common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, which is the primary market for Walmart's common stock.  The common stock trades under the symbol "WMT."
Market Price of Common Stock
The high market price and low market price per share for the Company's common stock for each fiscal quarter in fiscal
2018
and
2017
...
87.00
72.48
65.28
The high market price and low market price per share for the Company's common stock for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal
2019
, were as follows:
2019
...
, there were
229,858
holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Dividends Payable Per Share
For fiscal
2019
, dividends will be paid based on the following schedule:
April 2, 2018
$
0.52
...
0.52
January 2, 2019
0.52
Dividends Paid Per Share
For fiscal
2018
, dividends were paid based on the following schedule:
April 3, 2017
$
0.51
...
0.51
For fiscal
2017
, dividends were paid based on the following schedule:
April 4, 2016
$
0.50
...
January 3, 2017
0.50
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ending with fiscal 2018 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2013, in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
31
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2013
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year Ending January 31, 2018
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2013
...
137.88
165.51
209.22
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
127.72
153.64
...
218.76
321.37
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during the fiscal year prior to November 20, 2017 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2018.  On October 9, 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning on November 20, 2017, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of
January 31, 2018
, authorization for
$18.8 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended
January 31, 2018
, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
(1)  Represents the approximate dollar value of shares that could have been purchased under the current plan at the end of the month.  The approximate dollar value of shares that could still have been purchased under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2018, as of November 17, 2017, when such plan was replaced, was $2.2 billion.
32
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Five-Year Financial Summary
Walmart Inc.
As of and for the Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share and unit count data)
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
Operating results
Total revenues
$
500,343
$
...
485,651
$
476,294
Percentage change in total revenues from previous fiscal year
3.0
%
0.8
...
%
1.6
%
Net sales
$
495,761
$
...
482,229
$
473,076
Percentage change in net sales from previous fiscal year
3.0
%
0.6
...
%
1.6
%
Increase (decrease) in calendar comparable sales
(1)
in the U.S.
2.2
...
%
(0.5
)%
Walmart U.S.
2.1
%
1.6
...
%
(0.6
)%
Sam's Club
2.8
%
0.5
...
%
0.3
%
Gross profit margin
24.7
%
24.9
...
%
24.3
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales
21.5
%
21.2
...
%
19.3
%
Operating income
$
20,437
$
...
14,694
16,182
15,918
Diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart
$
3.28
$
...
4.99
$
4.85
Dividends declared per common share
2.04
2.00
1.96
...
45,141
$
44,858
Property, equipment, capital lease and financing obligation assets, net
114,818
114,178
116,516
...
199,581
203,490
204,541
Long-term debt and long-term capital lease and financing obligations (excluding amounts due within one year)
36,825
42,018
44,030
43,495
44,368
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
77,869
77,798
80,546
81,394
76,255
Unit counts
(2)
Walmart U.S. segment
4,761
4,672
4,574
4,516
4,203
Walmart International segment
6,360
6,363
6,299
6,290
6,107
Sam's Club segment
597
660
655
...
11,453
10,942
(1)
Comparable sales include sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations and expansions, as well as eCommerce sales and sales from eCommerce acquisitions when such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales include fuel.
(2)
Unit counts related to discontinued operations have been removed from all relevant periods.
33
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is engaged in retail and wholesale operations in various formats around the world.  Through our operations, we help people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – in retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping into an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each of the markets in which we operate.  Digital retail, or eCommerce, is comprised of our eCommerce websites, mobile commerce applications and transactions involving both an eCommerce platform and a physical format, which we refer to as omni-channel.  Each week, we serve nearly
270 million
customers who visit our more than
11,700
stores and numerous eCommerce websites under
65
banners in
28
countries.  Our strategy is to lead on price, invest to differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience.  By leading on price we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Price leadership is core to who we are.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.  Our physical and digital presence, in which we are investing to integrate into a seamless omni-channel, provides customers convenient access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere.  We strive to give our customers and members a great shopping experience through whichever shopping method they prefer.
Our operations consist of three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.
•
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment with three primary store formats and eCommerce, as well as an omni-channel offering.  Of our three reportable segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, it has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
•
Walmart International consists of our operations outside of the U.S. and includes retail, wholesale and other businesses.  These categories, including eCommerce, consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry.  Overall gross profit rate for Walmart International is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.  Walmart International is our second largest segment and has grown in recent years by adding retail, wholesale and other units, and expanding eCommerce.
•
Sam's Club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs as well as eCommerce through samsclub.com.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Each of our segments contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  Each, however, has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Our fiscal year ends on
January 31
for our U.S. and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as weather patterns.  Generally, our highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending
January 31
.
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended
...
January 31, 2016
("fiscal
2016
") should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of the three segments of our business to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.  When we do so, the previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.
34
Comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated online or though mobile applications, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs.  Sales of a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.  Additionally, sales related to eCommerce acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, we use the term "currency exchange rates" to refer to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for all countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates from the prior period to the current period as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates, and current period activity translated using the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates.  Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
The Retail Industry
We operate in the highly competitive retail industry in all of the markets we serve.  We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce businesses.  Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international online presence.  We compete with a number of companies for prime retail site locations, as well as in attracting and retaining quality employees ("associates").  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, cost of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, deflation, inflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor costs, tax rates, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
," and under "
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
."
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  Our financial framework is defined as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
strategic capital allocation.
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on increasing comparable sales and eCommerce sales growth while slowing the rate of growth of new stores and clubs.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company, which may not benefit comparable sales in the near term.
Comparable sales is a metric which indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar.  As our fiscal calendar differs from the retail calendar, our fiscal calendar comparable sales also differ from the retail calendar comparable sales provided in our quarterly earnings releases.
35
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal
2018
and
2017
...
2017
2018
2017
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
2.1%
1.6%
0.1%
0.0%
Sam's Club
2.8%
0.5%
1.0%
...
1.4%
0.2%
(0.1)%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel,
increased
2.2%
and
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The fiscal
2018
total U.S. comparable sales were positively impacted by continued traffic improvement, higher eCommerce sales and the impact of higher fuel sales.  eCommerce sales positively impacted comparable sales approximately
0.7%
for both Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club for fiscal
2018
.  The fiscal
2017
total U.S. comparable sales were positively impacted by continued traffic improvement and higher eCommerce sales at the Walmart U.S. segment, partially offset by the negative impact of lower fuel sales primarily due to lower fuel prices at the Sam's Club segment.  eCommerce sales positively impacted comparable sales approximately 0.4% and 0.7% for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club, respectively, for fiscal
2017
.
In the past, when we were focused on adding new stores and clubs in the U.S., we did so with an understanding that additional stores and clubs may take sales away from existing units.  We reduced the number of new store and club openings in fiscal 2018 and the negative impact on comparable sales as a result of these openings was not significant.  We expect this trend to continue in the future as well.  In fiscal
2017
, we estimate the negative impact on comparable sales as a result of opening new stores and clubs was approximately 0.7%.  Our estimate was calculated primarily by comparing the sales trends of the impacted stores and clubs, which are identified based on their proximity to the new stores and clubs, to those of nearby non-impacted stores and clubs, in each case, as measured after the new stores and clubs are opened.
Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses and optimizing the efficiency of how we work.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2018
2017
Net sales
$
495,761
$
...
%
5.0
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
21.5
%
21.2
%
For fiscal
2018
, operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses as a percentage of net sales increased
32
basis points, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  While our increase in net sales and improving expense management had a positive impact on our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, we did not leverage expenses as a result of approximately $0.6 billion of charges related to Sam's Club closures and discontinued real estate projects, approximately $400 million related to a lump sum bonus paid to associates, $300 million related to Home Office severance, a legal accrual of $283 million related to the FCPA matter, a charge of $244 million related to Walmart U.S. discontinued real estate projects, and the decisions to exit certain international properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations.
Strategic Capital Allocation
We are allocating more capital to remodels, eCommerce, technology and supply chain and less to new store and club openings, when compared to prior years.  This allocation aligns with our initiatives of improving our customer proposition in stores and clubs and integrating digital and physical shopping.  The following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2018
2017
New stores and clubs, including expansions and relocations
...
Remodels
2,009
1,589
eCommerce, technology, supply chain and other
4,521
4,162
Total U.S.
7,444
7,922
Walmart International
2,607
2,697
Total capital expenditures
$
10,051
$
10,619
36
Total U.S. capital expenditures decreased
$478 million
for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Capital expenditures related to new stores and clubs, including expansions and relocations, decreased
$1.3 billion
, partially offset by increases to capital expenditures for remodels and for eCommerce, technology, supply chain and other.  These changes were a result of our shift in capital allocation strategy to support growth in comparable store and club sales and eCommerce, while slowing the rate at which we open new stores and clubs.
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.  We measure returns on capital with our return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  In addition, we provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was
...
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, respectively.  The decline in ROA was primarily due to the loss on extinguishment of debt and the decrease in operating income for the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2018
.  ROI was
14.2%
...
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, respectively.  The decline in ROI was primarily due to the decrease in operating income for the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2018
.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average accumulated amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of eight.  When we have discontinued operations, we exclude the impact of the discontinued operations.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI.  In addition, we include a factor of eight for rent expense that estimates the hypothetical capitalization of our operating leases.  As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP that is the most directly comparable financial measure to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.
Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
37
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
...
2017
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
10,523
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
20,437
$
...
+ Rent
2,932
2,612
= Adjusted operating income
$
34,050
$
...
2018
2017
2016
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
204,522
...
20,654
19,607
(1)  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the prior period and dividing by 2.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See
Liquidity and Capital Resources
for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of
$28.3 billion
,
$31.7 billion
...
2017
and
2016
, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of
$18.3 billion
,
$21.1 billion
...
2017
and
2016
, respectively.  The decreases in net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow in fiscal
2018
from fiscal
2017
were primarily due to the
timing of tax and other payments, as well as lapping the previous year's improvements in working capital management
and the benefit from the application of tax regulations adopted in fiscal 2017.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow in fiscal
2017
from fiscal
2016
was primarily due to
improved working capital management.  Additionally, we benefited from the application of new tax regulations related to the accelerated deduction of remodels and related expenses.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
38
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by Walmart's management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2018
...
31,673
$
27,552
Payments for property and equipment
(10,051
)
(10,619
)
(11,477
)
Free cash flow
$
18,286
$
...
)
(16,285
)
(1)  "Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2018
2017
2016
Total revenues
$
500,343
$
...
%
(0.7
)%
Net sales
$
495,761
$
...
%
(0.7
)%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
2.2
%
1.4
%
0.3
%
Gross profit rate
24.7
%
24.9
%
24.6
%
Operating income
$
20,437
$
22,764
$
24,105
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.1
%
4.7
%
5.0
%
Consolidated net income
$
10,523
$
14,293
$
15,080
Unit counts at period end
11,718
11,695
11,528
Retail square feet at period end
1,158
1,164
1,149
Our total revenues, which are mostly comprised of net sales, but also include membership and other income, increased
$14.5 billion
or
3.0%
...
and
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Net sales
increased
$14.4 billion
or
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales, the impact from new store openings and
sales generated from eCommerce acquisitions
.  Additionally, for fiscal
2018
, the increase in net sales was partially offset by a reduction in net sales of $1.9 billion due to
divesting our Yihaodian and Suburbia businesses
and the
$0.5 billion
of negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  For fiscal
2017
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales and the 1.3% year-over-year growth in consolidated retail square feet.  The positive effect of such factors on our consolidated net sales for fiscal
2017
was partially offset by a negative impact of $11.0 billion or 2.3% as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and a $0.4 billion decrease in fuel sales from lower fuel prices at the Sam's Club segment.
Our gross profit rate decreased
26
basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease was primarily due to strategic price investments and the mix impact from eCommerce.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to improved margin in food and consumables, including the impact of savings in procuring merchandise and lower transportation expense from lower fuel costs in the Walmart U.S. segment.  Additionally, improvement in certain markets' inventory management and cost analytics programs in the Walmart International segment also positively impacted our gross profit rate for fiscal
2017
.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased
32
and 88 basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to approximately $0.6 billion in charges related to Sam's Club closures and discontinued real estate projects, approximately $400 million related to a lump sum bonus paid to associates, $300 million related to Home Office severance, a legal accrual of $283 million related to the FCPA matter in the third quarter, a charge of $244 million related to discontinued real estate projects in Walmart U.S., and the decisions to exit certain international properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to an increase in wage expense at the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments resulting from the continued investment in associate wage structure, a $370 million charge related to discontinued domestic real estate projects and severance, and our
39
continued investments in eCommerce and technology.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales for fiscal
2017
was partially offset by the impact of store closures in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016.
Membership and other income was relatively flat for fiscal
2018
and increased $1.0 billion for fiscal
2017
, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  While fiscal
2018
included a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia, a $47 million gain from a land sale, higher recycling income from our sustainability efforts and higher membership income from increased Plus Member penetration at Sam's Club,
these gains were less than gains recognized in fiscal
2017
.  Fiscal
2017
included a $535 million gain from the sale of our Yihaodian business and a $194 million gain from the sale of shopping malls in Chile.
For fiscal 2018, loss on extinguishment of debt was
$3.1 billion
, due to the early extinguishment of long-term debt which
allowed us to retire higher rate debt to reduce interest expense in future periods
.
Our effective income tax rate was
30.4%
for fiscal
2018
...
2017
and
2016
.  Although relatively consistent year-over-year, our effective income tax rate may fluctuate from period to period as a result of factors including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, changes in tax laws, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
Note 9
in the "
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
" and describes the impact of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") to the fiscal 2018 effective income tax rate.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported
$10.5 billion
and
$14.3 billion
of consolidated net income for fiscal
2018
and
2017
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was
$3.28
and
$4.38
...
and
2017
, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2018
2017
2016
Net sales
$
318,477
$
...
%
3.6
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
2.1
%
1.6
%
1.0
%
Operating income
$
17,869
$
17,745
$
19,087
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.6
%
5.8
%
6.4
%
Unit counts at period end
4,761
4,672
4,574
Retail square feet at period end
705
699
690
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased
$10.6 billion
or
3.5%
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable store sales of
2.1%
and
1.6%
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively, and year-over-year growth in retail square feet of
0.7%
and 1.4% for fiscal
2018
...
, respectively.  Additionally, for fiscal
2018
,
sales generated from eCommerce acquisitions
further contributed to the year-over-year increase.
Gross profit rate decreased
24
basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease was primarily due to strategic price investments and the mix impact from eCommerce.  Partially offsetting the negative factors for fiscal
2018
was the positive impact of savings from procuring merchandise.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to improved margin in food and consumables, including the impact of savings in procuring merchandise and lower transportation expense from lower fuel costs.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales was relatively flat for fiscal
2018
and increased 101 basis points for fiscal
2017
...
2018
and fiscal
2017
included charges related to discontinued real estate projects of $244 million and $249 million, respectively.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase was primarily driven by an increase in wage expense due to the investment in the associate wage structure; the charge related to discontinued real estate projects; and investments in digital retail and technology.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal
2017
was partially offset by the impact of store closures in fiscal 2016.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased
$124 million
for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, respectively.
40
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2018
2017
2016
Net sales
$
118,068
$
...
)%
(9.4
)%
Operating income
$
5,352
$
5,758
$
5,346
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.5
%
5.0
%
4.3
%
Unit counts at period end
6,360
6,363
6,299
Retail square feet at period end
373
377
372
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased
$1.9 billion
or
1.7%
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in net sales was due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and the impact of new stores, partially offset by a reduction in net sales of $1.9 billion due to
divesting our Yihaodian and Suburbia businesses
and a
$0.5 billion
negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  For fiscal
2017
, the decrease in net sales was due to a $11.0 billion negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Additionally, net sales for fiscal
2017
were impacted by positive comparable sales in all of our markets, except in the United Kingdom, and year-over-year growth in retail square feet of 1.2%.
Gross profit rate decreased
28
basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease in the gross profit rate was primarily due to strategic price investments in certain markets.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to improvement in certain markets' inventory management and cost analytics programs.
Membership and other income decreased
14.0%
for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  While fiscal
2018
included a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia and a $47 million gain from a land sale,
these gains were less than gains recognized in fiscal
2017
.  Fiscal
2017
included a $535 million gain from the sale of our Yihaodian business and a $194 million gain from the sale of shopping malls in Chile
.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
11
basis points for fiscal
2018
and increased 58 basis points for fiscal
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal
2018
was primarily due to an increase in net sales partially offset by restructuring and impairment charges in certain markets of approximately $0.5 billion, including charges from decisions to exit certain properties and to wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal
2017
was primarily due to declining sales on relatively flat fixed costs in the United Kingdom, as well as adjustments to useful lives of certain assets and impairment charges in certain markets.
Segment operating income was negatively impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates of
$68 million
and $642 million for fiscal
2018
and
2017
, respectively.  As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased
$406 million
for fiscal
2018
and increased $412 million for fiscal
2017
, respectively.
Sam's Club Segment
We believe the information in the below table under the caption "Excluding Fuel" is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2018
2017
2016
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
59,216
$
...
%
(2.1
)%
Calendar comparable sales increase (decrease)
2.8
%
0.5
%
(3.2
)%
Operating income
$
982
$
1,671
$
1,820
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
1.7
%
2.9
%
3.2
%
Unit counts at period end
597
660
655
Retail square feet at period end
80
88
88
Excluding Fuel
Net sales
$
54,456
$
...
%
1.4
%
Operating income
$
864
$
1,619
$
1,746
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
1.6
%
3.0
...
3.3
%
41
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased
$1.9 billion
or
3.2%
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in net sales was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales which were benefited by an increase of
$0.7 billion
in fuel sales from higher fuel prices in fiscal
2018
.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in net sales was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales without fuel driven by higher eCommerce sales, and a year-over-year increase in retail square feet of 0.9%, partially offset by a decrease of $0.4 billion in fuel sales primarily from lower fuel prices in fiscal
2017
.  In the future, net sales will be negatively impacted by our decision to remove tobacco in certain clubs.
Gross profit rate decreased
44
basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to the impact of markdowns to liquidate inventory related to the club closures, a reclassification of certain supply expenses from operating expenses to cost of goods sold, higher inventory shrink, increased shipping costs at samsclub.com and the investment in cash rewards.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to margin rate improvement in home and apparel, health and wellness, and grocery, partially offset by changes in merchandise mix and the growth of the Cash Rewards program.
Membership and other income increased
2.3%
for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in membership and other income was primarily due to higher recycling income from our sustainability efforts and an increase of 1.3% in membership income resulting from increased Plus Member penetration.  For fiscal
2017
, the decrease was primarily due to a reduction in other income partially offset by an increase of 2.3% in membership income as a result of increased Plus Member renewals.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased
80
and 49 basis points for fiscal
2018
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales was primarily due to a charge of approximately $0.6 billion related to club closures and discontinued real estate projects.  For fiscal
2017
, the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales was primarily due to an increase in wage, benefit and incentive expenses from the investment in the associate wage structure, as well as our investments in eCommerce and technology and an increase in advertising expense.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased
$689 million
and $149 million f
or fiscal
...
and
2017
, respectively.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund the dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be adequate to fund operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
, respectively.  The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was due to the
timing of tax and other payments, as well as lapping the previous year's improvements in working capital management
and the benefit from the application of tax regulations adopted in fiscal 2017.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to
improved working capital management.  Additionally, we benefited from the application of new tax regulations related to the accelerated deduction of remodels and related expenses.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital
Cash and cash equivalents were
$6.8 billion
and
...
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, respectively.  Our working capital deficit was
$18.9 billion
and
$9.2 billion
...
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, respectively.  The increase in our working capital deficit reflects an increase in short-term borrowings as part of our long-term debt extinguishment activity as well as improved procurement and inventory management.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
42
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.  We do not believe it will be necessary to repatriate earnings held outside of the U.S. and anticipate our domestic liquidity needs will be met through cash flows provided by domestic operating activities, supplemented with long-term debt and short-term borrowings.  Accordingly, we intend, with only certain exceptions, to continue to indefinitely reinvest our earnings held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations.  As part of U.S. tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017, we are currently assessing the impact of the new legislation, which can in turn, impact our assertion regarding any potential future repatriation.  If our intentions with respect to reinvestment were to change, most of the amounts held within our foreign operations could be repatriated to the U.S., although any repatriation under new U.S. tax laws could be subject to incremental withholding taxes.  We do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations or potential taxes on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.
As of
January 31, 2018
and
...
2017
and
2016
, respectively, and generally consisted of payments to remodel existing stores and clubs, expand our eCommerce capabilities, invest in other technologies and add stores and clubs.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased
$4.9 billion
for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Fiscal
2018
included cash received of $1.0 billion from the sale of Suburbia in Mexico, while fiscal
2017
included our acquisition of Jet.com, Inc. ("jet.com") for approximately $2.4 billion and our purchase of $1.9 billion of available for sale securities in JD.com ("JD").  Net cash used in investing activities increased $3.3 billion for fiscal
2017
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to our acquisition of jet.com and investment in JD, partially offset by $0.7 billion in cash received from the sales of shopping malls in Chile.  Refer to
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our acquisition of jet.com and investment in JD.  Additionally, refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2018 and 2017.
We continued to focus on eCommerce, including a seamless omni-channel shopping experience, in each of our segments during fiscal
2018
.  Our fiscal
2018
accomplishments in this area include growing "Online Grocery" to over 1,100 pickup locations in the U.S., new dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, two-day free shipping with no membership fee at Walmart U.S. and one-hour delivery from stores in China.
Growth Activities
For the fiscal year ending January 31,
2019
("fiscal
2019
"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $11.0 billion and involve:
•
in Walmart U.S., continuing to prioritize store remodels and digital experiences, with approximately 1,000 additional online grocery locations;
•
in Walmart International, investing more in fulfillment capabilities in addition to new stores; and,
•
eCommerce investments that include enhanced supply chain capabilities.
Globally, in fiscal
2019
, we expect to add approximately 280 new, expanded or relocated stores and clubs, with approximately 255 of those in Walmart International, focusing on key markets such as Mexico and China.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
$
(16,285
)
Net cash flows used in financing activities generally consist of transactions related to our short-term and long-term debt, financing obligations, dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.  Transactions with noncontrolling interests are also classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Net cash used in financing activities increased
$0.8 billion
and
$2.8 billion
...
2017
, respectively, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal
2018
increased due to premiums paid for early extinguishment of debt.  Net cash used in financing
43
activities for fiscal
2017
increased primarily due to repurchases of Company stock partially offset by lower repayments of long-term debt.  Further discussion of financing activities is provided by major category below.
Short-term Borrowings
Net cash flows provided by short-term borrowings increased
$4.1 billion
in fiscal
2018
...
$1.7 billion
in fiscal
2017
, when compared to the balance at the end of the previous fiscal year.  We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements.  For fiscal
2018
, the additional cash provided by short-term borrowings was primarily due to the timing of our January 2018 debt extinguishment.  For fiscal
2017
, the decrease in net cash flows provided by short-term borrowings was due to improved cash flows from operations driven by working capital improvements and changes to tax regulations.
The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
9,493
$
10,551
Average daily short-term borrowings
8,131
5,691
4,536
...
%
1.5
%
In addition to our short-term borrowings, we also have various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. that provide
$12.5 billion
and various undrawn committed lines of credit outside of the U.S. that provide approximately $4.0 billion of additional liquidity, if needed.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal
2018
:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2017
$
...
36,015
$
38,271
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
7,476
7,476
Payments of long-term debt
(1,789
)
(11,272
)
(13,061
)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
3,224
(3,224
)
...
30,045
$
33,783
Our total long-term debt decreased
$4.5 billion
for fiscal
2018
, primarily due to the extinguishment and maturities of certain long-term debt, partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt.  The extinguishment of certain long-term debt
allowed us to retire higher rate debt to reduce interest expense in future periods
.
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were
$6.1 billion
,
$6.2 billion
...
February 20, 2018
, the Board of Directors approved the fiscal
2019
annual dividend of
$2.08
per share, an increase over the fiscal
2018
annual dividend of
$2.04
per share.  For fiscal
2019
, the annual dividend will be paid in
four
quarterly installments of
$0.52
...
September 4, 2018
December 7, 2018
January 2, 2019
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during the fiscal year prior to November 20, 2017 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal
2018
.  On October 9, 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new
$20.0 billion
share repurchase program which, beginning on November 20, 2017, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of
January 31, 2018
, authorization for
$18.8 billion
of share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  We anticipate that a significant majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be
44
funded through the Company's free cash flows.  The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal
2018
,
2017
...
2016
:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2018
2017
2016
...
104.9
119.9
62.4
Average price paid per share
$
79.11
$
69.18
$
65.90
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
8,296
$
8,298
$
4,112
Share repurchases were flat for fiscal
2018
and increased
$4.2 billion
...
Significant Transactions with Noncontrolling Interests
In fiscal 2016, as described in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed the purchase of all of the remaining noncontrolling interest in Yihaodian, our eCommerce operations in China, for approximately $760 million, using existing cash to complete the transaction.  The Company subsequently sold Yihaodian to JD in fiscal 2017.
Capital Resources
We believe cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, which include funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  At
January 31, 2018
, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
45
Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth certain information concerning our obligations to make contractual future payments, such as debt and lease agreements, and certain contingent commitments as of
January 31, 2018
:
Payments Due During Fiscal Years Ending January 31,
...
2022-2023
Thereafter
Recorded contractual obligations:
Long-term debt
(1)
$
33,783
...
3,541
$
21,259
Short-term borrowings
5,257
5,257
—
—
—
Capital lease and financing obligations
(2)
9,930
1,039
...
1,539
5,423
Unrecorded contractual obligations:
Non-cancelable operating leases
(3)
15,366
1,933
3,250
2,539
7,644
Estimated interest on long-term debt
17,601
1,291
2,319
...
$
47,121
(1)
"Long-term debt" includes the fair value of our derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
(2)
"Capital lease and financing obligations" includes executory costs and imputed interest related to capital lease and financing obligations that are not yet recorded.  Refer to
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
(3)
Represents minimum contractual obligation for non-cancelable leases with initial or remaining terms greater than 12 months as of
January 31, 2018
.
Additionally, the Company has
$12.5 billion
in undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. and approximately $4.0 billion of undrawn committed lines of credit outside of the U.S. which, if drawn upon, would be included in the current liabilities section of the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding at
January 31, 2018
, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate debt.
Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the table above.  Additionally, purchase orders for inventory are not included in the table above as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.
The expected timing for payment discussed above is estimated based on current information.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
In addition to the amounts shown in the table above,
$1.0 billion
of unrecognized tax benefits are considered uncertain tax positions and have been recorded as liabilities.  The timing of the payment, if any, associated with these liabilities is uncertain.  Refer to
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of
January 31, 2018
, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
46
Other Matters
We discuss our existing FCPA investigation and related matters, including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein.  We also discuss various legal proceedings related to the FCPA investigation in
Item 3
herein under the caption "Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings," under the sub-caption "II. Certain Other Proceedings."  We discuss the "equal value" claims against our United Kingdom subsidiary, ASDA Stores, Ltd., including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein. We discuss the national prescription opiate litigation including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies, how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Inventories
We value
inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for Walmart U.S. segment's inventories.  The inventory at the Walmart International segment is valued primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method.  The retail inventory method of accounting results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market, since permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.  The inventory at the Sam's Club segment is valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.
Under the retail method of accounting, inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to each merchandise grouping's retail value.  The FIFO cost-to-retail ratio is generally based on the fiscal year purchase activity.  The cost-to-retail ratio for measuring any LIFO provision is based on the initial margin of the fiscal year purchase activity less the impact of any permanent markdowns.  The retail method of accounting requires management to make certain judgments and estimates that may significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the amount of gross profit recognized.  Judgments made include recording markdowns used to sell inventory and shrinkage.  When management determines the ability to sell inventory has diminished, markdowns for clearance activity and the related cost impact are recorded.  Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences and age of merchandise, as well as seasonal and fashion trends.  Changes in weather and customer preferences could also cause changes in the amount and timing of markdowns from year to year.
When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.  Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices.  As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% increase to our retail price indices would not have resulted in a decrease to the carrying value of inventory.  At
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.
We provide for estimated inventory losses, or shrinkage, between physical inventory counts on the basis of a historical percentage of sales.  Following annual inventory counts, the provision is adjusted to reflect updated historical results.  Historically, our estimated inventory losses have been materially accurate when compared to annual inventory counts and we expect that trend to continue.
Impairment of Assets
We evaluate long-lived assets, other than goodwill and assets with indefinite lives, for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Management's judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and financial performance.  The evaluation of long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level.  The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in
47
demographics.  Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period.  These factors could cause management to conclude that indicators of impairment exist and require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the related long-lived assets.  Although impairment charges for fiscal
2018
were
$1.4 billion
, these charges
primarily related to restructuring activities described in
Note 14
,
as well as discontinued real estate projects in the U.S. and decisions to exit certain international properties
.  Impairment charges not related to restructuring activities or decisions to exit properties for fiscal 2018 were not material and would not change materially with a 10% decrease in the undiscounted cash flows for the stores with indicators of impairment.
Additionally, total impairment charges for fiscal
2017
were not material.
Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired.  Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary.  If we determine, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed.  The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions.  These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based approach.  Historically, our reporting units and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have generated sufficient returns to recover the cost of goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets.  Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.  For approximately $300 million of certain acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value approximated the carrying value; any deterioration in the fair value may result in an impairment charge.
Income Taxes
Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally lower than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result.
Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  This determination requires the use of significant judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years.  Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies heavily on estimates.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law.  Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and creates new taxes on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments.  In addition, the Company was subject to a one-time transition tax in fiscal 2018 on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a net tax benefit of
$0.2 billion
related to the enactment of the Tax Act.  The benefit primarily related to the remeasurement of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities considering the Tax Act's newly enacted tax rates and is net of the Tax Act's one-time transition tax on previously unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries.  As discussed in
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, as the Company collects and prepares necessary data, and interprets the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, the Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts.  Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.  The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act is provisional and will be completed by the measurement period provided in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.
48
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt issuances.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal
2018
, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps decreased approximately
$87 million
primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For debt obligations, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates at
January 31, 2018
.
Expected Maturity Date
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
5,257
...
%
1.5
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
3.0
%
(1)
The long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the Company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges.
As of
January 31, 2018
, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented
26%
of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on
January 31, 2018
debt levels, a
100
basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately
$96 million
.
Foreign Currency Risk
...
2018
, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the Company's subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Canada were the primary cause of the
$2.3 billion
gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.  We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps and designating certain foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as net investment hedges.
We hold currency swaps to hedge the currency exchange component of our net investments and also to hedge the currency exchange rate fluctuation exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-U.S. denominated debt.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in an asset position of
$413 million
at
January 31, 2018
...
$147 million
at
January 31, 2017
.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of other currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in fiscal
2018
.  A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate at
January 31, 2018
would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of the swaps of
$560 million
.  A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying
49
these swaps from the market rates in effect at
January 31, 2018
would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of the swaps of
$22 million
.
In addition to currency swaps, we have designated foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations.  We had outstanding long-term debt of
£1.7 billion
at
January 31, 2018
...
January 31, 2017
that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the United Kingdom.  At
January 31, 2018
, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of
$217 million
.  In addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of
¥180 billion
at
January 31, 2018
...
January 31, 2017
that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in Japan.  At
January 31, 2018
, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of
$150 million
.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
During fiscal
2018
, the fair value of our available-for-sale investment in JD increased approximately
$1.5 billion
, due to an increase in the market value of JD.
50
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
(formerly "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.")
For the Fiscal Year Ended
January 31, 2018
Table of Contents
Page
Management's Report to Our Shareholders
52
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
53
...
56
Consolidated Balance Sheets
57
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
58
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
59
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
60
51
Management's Report to Our Shareholders
Walmart Inc.
Management of Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "company" or "we") is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of Walmart's Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Those Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements, management is required to make certain estimates and judgments, which are based upon currently available information and management's view of current conditions and circumstances.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our process of reporting financial information and the audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Audit Committee stays informed of the financial condition of Walmart and regularly reviews management's financial policies and procedures, the independence of our independent auditors, our internal control over financial reporting and the objectivity of our financial reporting.  Both the independent auditors and the internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee and meet with the Audit Committee regularly, both with and without management present.
Acting through our Audit Committee, we have retained Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit our Consolidated Financial Statements appearing below.  We have made available to Ernst & Young LLP all of our financial records and related data in connection with their audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements.  We have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") the required certifications related to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended
January 31, 2018
.  These certifications are attached as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additionally, we have also provided to the New York Stock Exchange the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding our compliance with the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards.
52
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2018
, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements").  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2018
, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
...
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
Rogers, Arkansas
March 30, 2018
53
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2018
, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2018
, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. as of
January 31, 2018
and
2017
, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2018
, and the related notes and our report dated
March 30, 2018
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2018
2017
2016
Revenues:
Net sales
$
495,761
$
481,317
$
478,614
Membership and other income
4,582
4,556
3,516
Total revenues
500,343
485,873
482,130
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
373,396
361,256
360,984
...
106,510
101,853
97,041
Operating income
20,437
22,764
24,105
Interest:
Debt
1,978
2,044
2,027
Capital lease and financing obligations
352
323
521
...
2,178
2,267
2,467
Loss on extinguishment of debt
3,136
—
—
Income before income taxes
15,123
20,497
21,638
Provision for income taxes
4,600
6,204
6,558
Consolidated net income
10,523
14,293
15,080
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(661
)
(650
)
(386
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
9,862
$
13,643
$
14,694
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
3.29
$
4.40
$
4.58
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
3.28
4.38
4.57
...
2,995
3,101
3,207
Diluted
3,010
3,112
3,217
Dividends declared per common share
$
2.04
$
...
2018
2017
2016
Consolidated net income
$
10,523
$
14,293
$
15,080
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(661
)
(650
)
(386
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
9,862
13,643
14,694
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
2,540
(3,027
...
)
413
366
Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities
1,501
145
—
Cash flow hedges
437
21
(202
...
(397
)
86
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
4,220
(2,845
)
...
)
(4,429
)
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
14,743
11,448
10,110
...
Inventories
43,783
43,046
Prepaid expenses and other
3,511
1,941
Total current assets
59,664
57,689
Property and equipment:
[Total relevant lines: 5078]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2018 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2019-03-28.html)
================================================================================
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company.  See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer
...
ý
As o
f
July 31, 2018, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2018, was
$126,810,267,035
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2019 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
7
Item 1A
Risk Factors
15
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
28
Item 6
Selected Financial Data
29
Item 7
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
43
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
45
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
81
Item 11
Executive Compensation
81
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
81
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
81
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31,
2019
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on
June 5, 2019
and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc." prior to February 1, 2018 and named "Walmart Inc." commencing on February 1, 2018 and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements relate to:
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, including as adjusted for certain items, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types, new store openings and investments in particular formats;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as grocery pickup and delivery;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates and fuel prices affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund and finance our operations, expansion activities, dividends and share repurchases, to meet our cash needs and to fund our operations;
•
the insignificance of ineffective hedges; and reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue,"
4
"will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements and cause our actual results or an actual event or occurrence to differ materially from those results or an event or occurrence described in a forward-looking statement.  These risks, factors and uncertainties, which may be global in their effect or affect only some of the markets in which we operate and which may affect us on a consolidated basis or affect only some of our reportable segments, include, but are not limited to:
Economic Factors
•
economic, geo-political, capital markets and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
...
•
changes in market rates of interest;
•
changes in market levels of wages;
•
changes in the size of various markets, including eCommerce markets;
•
unemployment levels;
•
inflation or deflation, generally and in certain product categories;
•
transportation, energy and utility costs;
•
commodity prices, including the prices of oil and natural gas;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels, and demand for certain merchandise;
•
trends in consumer shopping habits around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
•
consumer enrollment in health and drug insurance programs and such programs' reimbursement rates and drug formularies; and
•
initiatives of competitors, competitors' entry into and expansion in Walmart's markets, and competitive pressures;
Operating Factors
•
the amount of Walmart's net sales and operating expenses denominated in U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies;
•
the financial performance of Walmart and each of its segments, including the amounts of Walmart's cash flow during various periods;
•
customer traffic and average ticket in Walmart's stores and clubs and on its eCommerce platforms;
•
the mix of merchandise Walmart sells and its customers purchase;
•
the availability of goods from suppliers and the cost of goods acquired from suppliers;
•
the effectiveness of the implementation and operation of Walmart's strategies, plans, programs and initiatives;
•
Walmart's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including within the eCommerce space;
•
unexpected changes in Walmart's objectives and plans;
•
the amount of shrinkage Walmart experiences;
•
consumer acceptance of and response to Walmart's stores and clubs, eCommerce platforms, programs, merchandise offerings and delivery methods;
•
Walmart's gross profit margins, including pharmacy margins and margins of other product categories;
•
the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
disruption of seasonal buying patterns in Walmart's markets;
•
Walmart's expenditures for Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other compliance-related matters including the adequacy of our accrual for our FCPA matter;
•
disruptions in Walmart's supply chain;
•
cybersecurity events affecting Walmart and related costs and impact of any disruption in business;
•
Walmart's labor costs, including healthcare and other benefit costs;
•
Walmart's casualty and accident-related costs and insurance costs;
•
the size of and turnover in Walmart's workforce and the number of associates at various pay levels within that workforce;
•
the availability of necessary personnel to staff Walmart's stores, clubs and other facilities;
•
developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations to which Walmart is a party or is subject, and the liabilities, obligations and expenses, if any, that Walmart may incur in connection therewith;
•
changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's commercial paper and debt securities by credit rating agencies;
•
Walmart's effective tax rate; and
•
unanticipated changes in accounting judgments and estimates;
5
Regulatory and Other Factors
•
changes in existing tax, labor and other laws and changes in tax rates, including the enactment of laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations;
•
the imposition of new taxes on imports and new tariffs and changes in existing tariff rates;
•
the imposition of new trade restrictions and changes in existing trade restrictions;
•
...
•
one or more prolonged federal government shutdowns;
•
the timing and amount of federal income tax refunds;
•
natural disasters, public health emergencies, civil disturbances, and terrorist attacks; and
•
changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal buying patterns, which patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The above list of factors that may affect the estimates and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or are made on our behalf is not exclusive.  We are subject to other risks discussed under "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors," and that we may discuss in Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under "Part II, Item 5," and in risks that may be discussed under "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or may otherwise be disclosed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
6
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we")
helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through eCommerce.
Through innovation, we strive
to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for
our customers.  Each week, we serve nearly
275 million
customers who visit our more than
11,300
stores and numerous eCommerce websites under
58
banners in
27
countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2019
("fiscal
2019
...
2017
").  During fiscal
2019
, we generated total revenues of
$514.4 billion
, which was primarily comprised of net sales of
$510.3 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of
January 31, 2019
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in
26
countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating walmart.com.  That same year, we also created samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  In 2016, we acquired jet.com in the U.S. and formed a strategic alliance with JD.com in China.  Since the jet.com purchase, we have continued to expand our U.S. eCommerce capabilities through acquisitions including Shoes.com, Moosejaw, Bonobos and other digital consumer brands.  In 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping on more than 2 million items and we created Store N
o
8, a technology incubator with a focus to drive commerce forward.  In fiscal 2019, we acquired a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"),
an Indian-based eCommerce marketplace
, with an ecosystem that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart, Myntra and Jabong.  In the U.S., we added more grocery pickup and delivery locations and as of January 31, 2019, we offered grocery pickup at more than 2,100 locations and grocery delivery at nearly 800 locations.  Our eCommerce efforts and innovation have led to omni-channel offerings in many of our markets.  We are building an ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, eCommerce sites, supply chain and more than
2.2 million
associates to better serve our customers.
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom,
as well as Brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of Walmart Brazil
discussed in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  We define our segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  Each of our segments contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  Each, however, has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  We sell similar individual products and services in each of our segments.  It is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
7
We measure the results of our segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.  In fiscal 2019, we revised certain of our corporate overhead allocations to the operating segments and, accordingly, revised prior period amounts for comparability.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com, jet.com and other eCommerce brands.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of
$331.7 billion
for fiscal
2019
, representing 65% of our fiscal
2019
consolidated net sales, and had net sales of
$318.5 billion
and
$307.8 billion
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S.
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
, through services such as "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today", "Grocery Pickup", "Grocery Delivery," and "Endless Aisle."  As of January 31, 2019, we had over 2,100 Grocery Pickup locations and nearly 800 Grocery Delivery locations.  Our eCommerce websites include walmart.com, jet.com and others.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of
January 31, 2019
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
The following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet by format for the fiscal years shown:
Supercenters
Discount Stores
Fiscal Year
...
386
40,626
Neighborhood Markets and Other Small Formats
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Opened and acquired
(3)
...
(2)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the years shown.  "Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
Includes acquired retail locations related to Walmart U.S. eCommerce brands
(4)
Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural & organics, deli & bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products;
8
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home/Seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise).
Walmart U.S. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  These services total less than 1% of annual net sales.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as:  "Athletic Works,"  "Bonobos," "Equate," "Everstart," "George,"  "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "ModCloth," "No Boundaries," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Time and Tru" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Farberware," "Russell" and "SwissTech."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as eCommerce retailers.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.
We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and
•
Omni-channel offerings such as Walmart Pickup, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store; Pickup Today, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store; Grocery Delivery, where a customer places a grocery order online and has it delivered; or Grocery Pickup, where a customer places a grocery order online and picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2019
, approximately
77%
of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our
156
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 33 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operates in
26
countries outside of the U.S.  Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom,
as well as Brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of Walmart Brazil
discussed in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements; and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), India and Mexico.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, asda.com, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites.
9
Walmart International had net sales of
$120.8 billion
for fiscal
2019
...
24%
of our fiscal
2019
consolidated net sales, and had net sales of
$118.1 billion
and
$116.1 billion
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively.  The segment's net sales have been negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented.  The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.
To deliver strong efficient growth, we have to be decisive when it comes to our capital and our time.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to reposition Walmart International, including:
•
Acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart in August 2018 for $16 billion, or
$13.8 billion
net of cash acquired.  We began consolidating Flipkart's results in the third quarter of fiscal 2019,
using a one-month lag
.
The ongoing operations negatively impacted fiscal 2019 net income and this negative impact will continue in fiscal 2020.
•
Proposed combination of J Sainsbury plc and Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our wholly-owned United Kingdom retail subsidiary.  Under the terms, we would receive approximately 42 percent of the share capital of the combined company and approximately £3.0 billion in cash, subject to customary closing adjustments, while retaining obligations under the Asda
defined benefit pension plan
.  Due to a complex regulatory review process, the outcome of which is uncertain and may take some time to complete, the held for sale classification criteria for the disposal group has not been met as of January 31, 2019.  Further,  there can be no assurance as to whether regulatory approval will be obtained or the proposed combination will be consummated.  In the future, if the held for sale classification criteria is met for the disposal group, we expect to recognize a loss, the amount of which may fluctuate based on the changes in the value of share capital received and foreign exchange rates.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil to Advent International (“Advent”) in August 2018.  Advent agreed to contribute additional capital to the business over a three-year period and we agreed to indemnify Advent for certain pre-closing tax and legal contingencies and other matters.  We
recorded a pre-tax net loss of
$4.8 billion in fiscal 2019 for the sale, of which
$2.0 billion
related to cumulative foreign currency translation loss which was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss.
•
Consistent with our focus on core retail capabilities, the divestiture of the Walmart Chile
banking operations
in December 2018 and the proposed divestiture of the Walmart Canada
banking operations
, classified as held for sale as of
January 31, 2019
.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
, such as through services like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom, our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets, and our marketplaces, such as Flipkart in India.
Generally, retail units range in size from
1,500
square feet to
186,000
...
square feet.  Other includes stand-alone gas stations operating in the United Kingdom, which range in size up to
2,200
square feet.
The following tables provide the unit count
(1)
and square feet
(2)
...
America
Chile
Fiscal Year
Unit Count
Square Feet
Unit
Count
...
371
16,411
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts and square footage are as of January 31.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(3)
The Company sold the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019.
10
China
India
Japan
Mexico
(4)
United
Kingdom
Total Segment
Fiscal Year
Unit
Count
...
5,993
344,210
(1)
"Unit Count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other.  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts and square footage are as of January 31.
(2)
"Square Feet" columns are reported in thousands.
(4)
All periods presented exclude units and square feet for the Vips restaurant business.  The Company completed the sale of the Vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015.
Unit counts
(1)
as of
January 31, 2019
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
8
—
371
China
420
23
—
443
India
—
22
—
...
—
—
332
Mexico
2,279
163
—
...
18
5,993
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31,
2018
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of
January 31, 2019
.
(2)
Other includes stand-alone gas stations.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
4
...
7
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
256
), El Salvador (
97
...
103
).
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Lider,"  "Myntra," "Jabong," "PhonePe," and "Extra Special."  In addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
Walmart International competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.
We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
11
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
226
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, India and the United Kingdom.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2019
, approximately
83%
of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 90 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as more than 1,900 eCommerce sort centers in India.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in
44
states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.  Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of
$57.8 billion
for fiscal
2019
, representing 11% of our consolidated fiscal 2019 net sales, and had net sales of
$59.2 billion
and
$57.4 billion
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
Eligible for Cash Rewards
Yes
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a
$500
cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.  Plus Members are also eligible for Free Shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions, glasses and contacts.
Omni-channel.
While Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club, it
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between
34,000
and
168,000
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.  The following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet for the fiscal years shown
:
Fiscal Year
Opened
...
80,240
(1)
"Total" and "Square Feet" columns are as of January 31 for the fiscal years shown.  "Square Feet" column is reported in thousands.
Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications, providing the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "Club Pickup." Sam's Club omni-channel capabilities also include "Scan and Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
The Member's Mark brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value.  In fiscal
2019
, Member's Mark sales exceeded $12 billion, driven by growth across multiple categories in the private brand portfolio.
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, all club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted.
12
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2019
, approximately
70%
of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from Sam's Club's
23
dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's club purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its six dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers, including two dedicated import facilities.
The principal focus of Sam's Club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise while minimizing stored inventory.  Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers.  Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the United States, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2019
, Walmart Inc. and our subsidiaries employed more than
2.2 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with
1.5 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.7 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good.  A large number of associates turn over each year, although Walmart U.S. turnover has improved in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S. we offer a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates.  These include a store discount card or Sam's Club membership, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of associate purchases of our stock through our Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  In addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S., we offer maternity leave and a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates.  We also offer a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption.  Additionally, we offer eligible associates tuition assistance towards earning a college degree.  Similarly, in the
13
operations outside the U.S., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
Name
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
47
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January  2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.
2016
50
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.  From January 2017 to May 2017, she was an Associate Professor of Law at George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School.  From August 2012 to February 2017, she served as a Board Member on the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board of the U.S. government.
2018
45
Jacqueline P. Canney
Executive Vice President, Global People, effective August 2015.  From September 2003 to July 2015, she served as the Managing Director of Global Human Resources at Accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company.
2015
51
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.  From January 2013 to October 2014, he served as Vice President, Finance Transformation, of Walmart International.
2017
49
Gregory Foran
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  effective August 2014.  From May 2014 to August 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region.  From March 2012 to May 2014, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China.
2014
57
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club, effective February 2017.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.  From January 2013 to October 2015, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Walmart China.
2017
44
Marc Lore
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. eCommerce, effective September 2016.  From April 2014 to September 2016, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Jet.com, Inc.
2016
47
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.  From April 2014 to February 2015, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer for Walmart U.S.  From April 2013 to April 2014, she served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Development, for Walmart International.
2018
52
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014.  From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
52
14
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and senior financial officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and senior financial officers or our Statement of Ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.
Strategic Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
15
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Other segments are substantially reducing operations which could also result in competition rushing to fill the void created by such corporate actions. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, or reduction in operation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our increasing eCommerce investments may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping digitally.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes acquisitions, joint ventures, investments in eCommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this
Item 1A
.  As a result, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected, which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain eCommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our  retail operations.  These arrangements may not generate the level of  sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance or business relationship could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a
16
country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.  We may also face reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and may also expose us to product liability or food safety claims.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.  In addition, third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  The applicability to us of laws related to such sales is currently unsettled and we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are counterfeit or otherwise fraudulent.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully
17
redundant and if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our eCommerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "Walmart Pickup," "Pickup Today," "Club Pickup" and "Online Grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. (whether through organic growth or eCommerce acquisitions) and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.
We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyber-attacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to gain access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below.  Such attacks, if successful, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers."  Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  As cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors.
18
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.  We or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.
Any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.
Changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments. A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of
19
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.  Additionally, failure of Walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
20
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business in Africa, Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.
During fiscal 2019, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
24%
of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also sources goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions on eCommerce offerings in international markets, such as India), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
Our business and results of operations in the UK may be negatively affected by increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws and fluctuations in currency exchange rates resulting from the UK's  pending exit from the European Union.  We expect continued uncertainty around the extent of the impact of this exit on our business until the UK and the European Union put in alternative trade and other arrangements.
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2019, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales.  The federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs.  Potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S.  A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
21
For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations and there are aspects of the Tax Act that remain unclear as additional guidance from the U.S. tax authority is pending.  As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws and regulations specific to the environments in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.
Our pharmacy operations in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements.  The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Affordable Care Act, laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the "DEA"), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services.
For example, in the United States the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition, and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the United States.  In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available, such as our money transfer agent services, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, fraud and other illicit activity.  The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer.
Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the United States or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
22
In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("Asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in numerous "equal value" claims pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former Asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in Asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in Asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis.  At present, we
cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters
.
In December 2017, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation consolidated numerous lawsuits filed against a wide array of defendants by various plaintiffs, including counties, cities, healthcare providers, Native American tribes, individuals, and third-party payors, asserting claims generally concerning the impacts of widespread opioid abuse.  The consolidated multidistrict litigation is entitled
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804)
, and is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.  The Company is named as a defendant in some of the cases included in this multidistrict litigation. Similar cases that name the Company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement. The Company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims.
We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
...
," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.
As previously disclosed, we are under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC regarding possible violations of the FCPA.  We have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have been ongoing with them regarding the resolution of these matters.  These discussions have progressed to a point that in fiscal 2018, we reasonably estimated a probable loss and recorded an aggregate accrual of $283 million with respect to these matters (the "Accrual").
A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico also investigated these matters.  Walmex cooperated with the Mexican governmental agencies that conducted these investigations.
Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation were filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and former officers and certain of Walmex's former officers.  These matters have been resolved or immaterial accruals have been made for proposed settlements.
We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of the matters noted above.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  Shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception among certain audiences of our role as a corporate citizen.  Moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and with respect to investigations.
While we have made an Accrual for these matters, because the discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of the final resolution of these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters, including the Accrual (and the payment of the Accrual at some point-in-time in the future) will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the future.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of
January 31, 2019
, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
35
24
215
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
12
25
191
Indiana
97
6
12
...
34
14
139
Maine
19
3
—
...
—
8
71
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
5,368
(1)  Includes
698
neighborhood markets, 77 Walmart U.S. eCommerce retail locations and 38 other small formats.
24
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of
January 31, 2019
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
8
—
371
China
420
23
—
443
India
—
22
—
...
—
—
332
Mexico
2,279
163
—
...
—
18
633
International total
5,669
306
18
5,993
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31,
2018
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of
January 31, 2019
.
(2)
Other includes stand-alone gas stations.
(3)
Africa unit counts by country are Botswana (
11
), Ghana (
4
...
7
).
(4)
Central America unit counts by country are Costa Rica (
256
), El Salvador (
97
...
) and Nicaragua (
103
).
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2019
:
Owned and Operated
Owned and Third Party Operated
Leased and Operated
Third Party Owned and Operated
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,075
—
694
—
4,769
Sam's Club retail units
513
—
86
—
599
Total U.S. retail units
4,588
—
780
—
5,368
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
107
2
29
18
156
Sam's Club distribution facilities
7
3
4
9
23
Total U.S. distribution facilities
114
5
33
...
813
27
5,547
International properties
Africa
38
—
...
153
—
371
China
2
—
441
—
443
India
2
—
20
...
278
—
332
Mexico
680
—
1,762
...
199
—
633
Total International retail units
1,946
—
4,047
—
5,993
International distribution facilities
33
5
122
66
226
Total International properties
1,979
5
4,169
...
4,982
93
11,766
Total retail units
6,534
—
4,827
—
11,361
Total distribution facilities
147
10
155
...
93
11,766
25
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is included in
Part II, Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
National Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL").  The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes 440 cases as of March 15, 2019; 27 cases are in the process of being transferred to the MDL or have remand motions pending; and there are 92 additional state cases pending as of
March 15, 2019
.  The case citations for the state cases are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
II. CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit in which the complaint closely tracks the allegations set forth in a news story that appeared in The New York Times (the "Times") on April 21, 2012.  This is a securities lawsuit,
City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
, USDC, Western Dist. of AR, that was filed on May 7, 2012, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, and subsequently transferred to the Western District of Arkansas, in which the plaintiff alleges various violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the
"FCPA") beginning in 2005, and asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to certain prior disclosures of the Company.  The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of shareholders who purchased or acquired stock of the Company between December 8, 2011, and April 20, 2012, and has sought damages and other relief based on allegations that the defendants' conduct affected the value of such stock.  On September 20, 2016, the court granted plaintiff's motion for class certification.  On October 6, 2016, the defendants filed a petition to appeal the class certification ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On November 7, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit denied the Company's petition.  On October 26, 2018, the parties filed a motion asking the court to approve a proposed settlement under which the Company would pay $160 million (the “Settlement Amount”) to resolve the claims of all class members.  On December 6, 2018, the court preliminarily approved the settlement and scheduled the final approval hearing for April 4, 2019.  The settlement does not include or constitute an admission, concession, or finding of any fault, liability, or wrongdoing by the Company or any defendant.  The Settlement Amount was expensed in the Company’s fiscal 2019 financial statements.
Securities Class Action
: City of Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., USDC, Western Dist. of AR; 5/7/12.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In September 2018, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) notified the Company that it had initiated an administrative penalty action by issuing a Draft Consent Agreement and Final Order. The letter accompanying the Draft Consent Agreement and Final Order alleges that the Company distributed and/or sold three unregistered pesticide products from March 1, 2017 through June 23, 2017. The EPA is seeking a penalty of $960,000. The manufacturer of the product is responsible for ensuring that a FIFRA-regulated product is properly registered prior to its sale. The Company is cooperating with the EPA.
In January 2018, the Environmental Prosecutor of the State of Chiapas (Procuraduría Ambiental del Estado de Chiapas) in Mexico imposed a fine of approximately $163,000 for the absence of an Environmental Impact Authorization License related to the store Mi Bodega Las Rosas. The Company is challenging the fine.
26
In April 2017, the California Air Resources Board (the "ARB") notified the Company that it had taken the position that retailers are required to use unclaimed deposits collected on sales of small containers of automotive refrigerant to fund certain consumer education programs. The ARB alleged that the Company had improperly retained approximately $4.2 million in unclaimed deposits and has sought reimbursement. The Company has denied any wrongdoing.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank. The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
223,968
holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ending with fiscal
2019
to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2014, in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2014
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year Ending January 31, 2019
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2014
...
136.20
172.17
168.19
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
119.10
140.73
...
241.08
256.26
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2019 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in October 2017, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.  As of
January 31, 2019
, authorization for
$11.3 billion
of share repurchases remained.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
28
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended
January 31, 2019
, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
34,813,769
(1)  Represents the approximate dollar value of shares that could have been repurchased at the end of the month.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Five-Year Financial Summary
Walmart Inc.
As of and for the Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share and unit count data)
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
Operating results
Total revenues
$
514,405
$
...
482,130
$
485,651
Percentage change in total revenues from previous fiscal year
2.8
%
3.0
...
)%
2.0
%
Net sales
$
510,329
$
...
478,614
$
482,229
Percentage change in net sales from previous fiscal year
2.9
%
3.0
...
)%
1.9
%
Increase (decrease) in calendar comparable sales
(1)
in the U.S.
4.0
...
%
0.5
%
Walmart U.S.
3.7
%
2.1
...
%
0.6
%
Sam's Club
5.4
%
2.8
...
)%
0.0
%
Gross profit margin
24.5
%
24.7
...
%
24.3
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales
21.0
%
21.5
...
%
19.4
%
Operating income
$
21,957
$
...
2,267
2,467
2,348
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
3,136
—
—
—
Other (gains) and losses
8,368
—
—
...
13,643
14,694
16,182
Diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart
$
2.26
$
...
4.57
$
4.99
Dividends declared per common share
2.08
2.04
2.00
...
44,469
$
45,141
Property, equipment, capital lease and financing obligation assets, net
111,395
114,818
114,178
...
198,825
199,581
203,490
Long-term debt and long-term capital lease and financing obligations (excluding amounts due within one year)
50,203
36,825
42,018
44,030
43,495
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
72,496
77,869
77,798
80,546
81,394
Unit counts
(2)
Walmart U.S. segment
4,769
4,761
4,672
4,574
4,516
Walmart International segment
5,993
6,360
6,363
6,299
6,290
Sam's Club segment
599
597
660
...
11,528
11,453
(1)
Comparable sales include sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including sales from acquisitions when such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.
Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.
Comparable sales include fuel.
(2)
Unit counts related to discontinued operations have been removed from all relevant periods.
29
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
...
January 31, 2017
("fiscal
2017
") should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
In fiscal 2019, the Company revised certain of its corporate overhead allocations, including depreciation expense, to the operating segments and, accordingly, revised prior period amounts for comparability
.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated online or though mobile applications, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs.
Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.
Additionally, sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars or for countries experiencing hyperinflation.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.
Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
Our business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as weather patterns.  Generally, our highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending
January 31
.
We made certain strategic portfolio decisions, further discussed in
Item 1. Business
, which include the following:
•
Acquisition of
81 percent
of the outstanding shares, or 77 percent of the diluted shares, of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart") in August 2018.
The ongoing operations negatively impacted fiscal 2019 net income and this negative impact will continue in fiscal 2020.
•
Proposed combination of J Sainsbury plc and Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), where we would receive approximately 42 percent of the share capital of the combined company, however, the held for sale criteria has not been met as of January 31, 2019.  Further, there can be no assurance as to whether regulatory approval will be obtained or the proposed combination will be consummated.  In the future, if the held for sale classification criteria is met for the disposal group, we expect to recognize a loss, the amount of which may fluctuate based on the changes in the value of share capital received and foreign exchange rates.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil to Advent International ("Advent") in August 2018, for which we recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.8 billion in fiscal 2019.
•
Divestiture of banking operations in Walmart Chile in December 2018 and the proposed divestiture of banking operations in Walmart Canada, classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2019.
30
The Retail Industry
We operate in the highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve.  We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce businesses.  Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence.  We also compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality employees ("associates").  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, cost of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, deflation, inflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
," and under "
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
."
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial framework as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
strategic capital allocation.
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expansion of omni-channel initiatives while slowing the rate of growth of new stores and clubs.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar.
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal
2019
and
2018
...
2018
2019
2018
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
3.7%
2.1%
0.1%
0.1%
Sam's Club
5.4%
2.8%
1.6%
...
2.2%
0.4%
0.2%
Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased
3.7%
and
2.1%
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, driven by ticket and traffic growth.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% and 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal
2019
and fiscal
2018
, respectively, as we continue to focus on a
seamless omni-channel experience for our customers
.  Sam's Club comparable sales increased
5.4%
and
2.8%
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively.  Sam's Club fiscal
2019
comparable sales were driven by strong traffic, which was aided by transfers of sales from our closed clubs to our existing clubs and fuel sales.  These increases were partially offset by reduced tobacco sales due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain locations in fiscal
2019
.  Sam's Club fiscal
2018
comp sales were driven by strong traffic and fuel sales.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.9% and 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal
2019
and
2018
, respectively.
31
Consistent Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2019
2018
Net sales
$
510,329
$
...
%
4.6
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
21.0
%
21.5
%
For fiscal
2019
, operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased
48
basis points, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The primary drivers of the expense leverage were
strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and lapping fiscal 2018 charges discussed in the following paragraph
.  The improvements in fiscal 2019 were partially offset by additional investments in eCommerce and technology, as well as a $160 million charge related to a
securities class action lawsuit
.
For fiscal 2018, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 32 basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  While our increase in net sales and improving expense management had a positive impact on our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, we did not leverage expenses as a result of approximately $0.6 billion in charges related to Sam's Club closures and discontinued real estate projects, $400 million related to a lump sum bonus paid to associates, $300 million related to Home Office severance, the legal accrual of $283 million related to the FCPA matter, a charge of $244 million related to discontinued real estate projects in Walmart U.S. and the decisions to exit certain international properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations.
Strategic Capital Allocation
We are allocating more capital to eCommerce, technology, supply chain, and store remodels and less to new store and club openings, when compared to prior years.  This allocation aligns with our initiatives of improving our customer proposition in stores and clubs and a
seamless omni-channel experience for our customers
.  Total fiscal 2019 capital expenditures increased slightly compared to the prior year; the following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2019
2018
eCommerce, technology, supply chain and other
5,218
4,521
Remodels
...
Total U.S.
7,683
7,444
Walmart International
2,661
2,607
Total capital expenditures
$
10,344
$
10,051
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was
...
2018
, respectively.  For fiscal
2019
, the decline in ROA was primarily due to the decrease in consolidated net income resulting from the $4.5 billion net loss related to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil and also the $2.8 billion net unrealized loss on our JD.com investment.  For fiscal
2018
, the decline in ROA was primarily due to the loss on extinguishment of debt and the decrease in operating income.  ROI was
14.2%
for  fiscal
2019
...
2018
.
32
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of 8.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI.  In addition, we include a factor of 8 for rent expense that estimates the hypothetical capitalization of our operating leases.  As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.
Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
Beginning in fiscal 2020, our calculation of ROI will change upon adoption of ASU 2016-02,
Leases
, primarily to replace the factor of 8 for rent expense with US GAAP operating lease assets.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2018
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
7,179
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
21,957
$
...
+ Rent
3,004
2,932
= Adjusted operating income
$
35,856
$
...
2019
2018
2017
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
219,295
...
22,122
20,654
(1)  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the prior period and dividing by 2.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See
Liquidity and Capital Resources
for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of
$27.8 billion
,
$28.3 billion
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of
$17.4 billion
,
$18.3 billion
...
2019
declined when compared to fiscal
2018
primarily due to timing of vendor payments, partially offset by lower tax payments mainly resulting from U.S. tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017 ("Tax Reform") and the timing of tax payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal
2019
declined when compared to fiscal
2018
due to the same reasons as the decline in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.3 billion in increased capital expenditures
.  The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow in fiscal
2018
from fiscal
2017
were primarily due to the timing of tax and other payments, as well as lapping the previous year's improvements in working capital management and the benefit from the application of tax regulations adopted in fiscal 2017.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
33
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2019
...
28,337
$
31,673
Payments for property and equipment
(10,344
)
(10,051
)
(10,619
)
Free cash flow
$
17,409
$
...
)
(19,072
)
(1)  "Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2019
2018
2017
Total revenues
$
514,405
$
...
%
0.8
%
Net sales
$
510,329
$
...
%
0.6
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
4.0
%
2.2
%
1.4
%
Gross profit rate
24.5
%
24.7
%
24.9
%
Operating income
$
21,957
$
20,437
$
22,764
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.3
%
4.1
%
4.7
%
Consolidated net income
$
7,179
$
10,523
$
14,293
Unit counts at period end
11,361
11,718
11,695
Retail square feet at period end
1,129
1,158
1,164
Our total revenues, which are mostly comprised of net sales, but also include membership and other income, increased
$14.1 billion
or
2.8%
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Net sales increased
$14.6 billion
or
2.9%
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, along with positive comparable sales in the majority of our International markets and net sales
from Flipkart, which we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  Additionally, for fiscal
2019
, the increase in net sales was partially offset by a $4.5 billion decrease in net sales due to club closures in the Sam's Club segment during fiscal
2018
, a $
3.1
billion reduction in net sales due to the
sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil
in the International segment,  and
$0.7 billion
of negative impact from
fluctuations in currency exchange rates
.  For fiscal
2018
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales, the impact from new store openings and sales generated from eCommerce acquisitions.  The positive effect of such factors on our consolidated net sales for fiscal
2018
was partially offset by a reduction in net sales of $1.9 billion due to
divesting our Yihaodian and Suburbia businesses
and the $0.5 billion of negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Our gross profit rate decreased
18
and 26 basis points for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was due to the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business, the consolidation of Flipkart, our planned pricing strategy and increased transportation expenses.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease was primarily due to our planned pricing strategy and the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business.
Membership and other income decreased for fiscal
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the prior year recognition of a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia in our International Segment.  Membership and other income was relatively flat for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  While fiscal
2018
included a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia, along with a $47 million gain from a land sale, higher recycling income from our sustainability efforts and higher membership income from increased Plus Member penetration at Sam's Club, these gains were offset by gains recognized in fiscal
2017
.
For fiscal
2019
, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased
48
basis points, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The primary drivers of the expense leverage were
strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and lapping fiscal 2018 charges discussed in the following paragraph
.  The improvements in fiscal 2019 were partially offset by additional investments in eCommerce and technology, as well as a $160 million charge related to a
securities class action lawsuit
.
For fiscal 2018, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 32 basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  While our increase in net sales and improving expense management had a positive impact on our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, we did not leverage expenses as a result of approximately $0.6 billion in charges related to Sam's Club closures and discontinued real estate projects, $400 million related to a lump sum bonus paid to associates, $300 million related to Home Office severance, the legal accrual of $283 million related to the FCPA matter, a charge of $244 million related to discontinued real estate projects in Walmart U.S. and the decisions to exit certain international properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations.
Other losses were
$8.4 billion
for fiscal
2019
, primarily the result of the $4.8 billion pre-tax loss on the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil and a $3.5 billion pre-tax decrease in the market value of our investment in JD.com.  Fiscal
2018
results included loss on extinguishment of debt of
$3.1 billion
.
Our effective income tax rate was
37.4%
for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, and 30.3% for fiscal
2017
.  Although the U.S. statutory rate was lowered due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act"), our effective income tax rate increased in fiscal
2019
primarily because we recognized minimal tax benefit related to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil and Flipkart's results.  Additionally, our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of factors including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that, beginning in fiscal 2019, are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal
2019
,
2018
...
$7.2 billion
and
$10.5 billion
of consolidated net income for fiscal
2019
and
2018
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was
$2.26
,
$3.28
...
2017
, respectively.
34
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2019
2018
2017
Net sales
$
331,666
$
...
%
3.2
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
3.7
%
2.1
%
1.6
%
Operating income
$
17,386
$
16,995
$
17,012
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.2
%
5.3
%
5.5
%
Unit counts at period end
4,769
4,761
4,672
Retail square feet at period end
705
705
699
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased
$13.2 billion
or
4.1%
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable store sales of
3.7%
and
2.1%
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, driven by ticket and traffic growth.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% and 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal
2019
and
2018
.  Additionally, for fiscal
2018
, year-over-year growth in retail square feet further contributed to the year-over-year increase.
Gross profit rate decreased
28
and 24 basis points for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was primarily due to our planned pricing strategy, increased transportation expenses, and the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease was primarily due to our planned pricing strategy and the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business.  Partially offsetting the negative factors for fiscal
2018
was the positive impact of savings from procuring merchandise.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
23
basis points for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in fiscal
2019
was primarily due to strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and the prior year comparable period including charges related to discontinued real estate projects of $244 million.  These improvements more than offset investments in eCommerce, technology and omni-channel initiatives and raising the starting wage rate at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased
$391 million
for fiscal
2019
and was relatively flat for fiscal
2018
, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous fiscal year.
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2019
2018
2017
Net sales
$
120,824
$
...
%
(5.9
)%
Operating income
$
4,883
$
5,229
$
5,737
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.0
%
4.4
%
4.9
%
Unit counts at period end
5,993
6,360
6,363
Retail square feet at period end
344
373
377
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased
$2.8 billion
or
2.3%
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and net sales from Flipkart, which we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  These increases were partially offset by a $
3.1
billion reduction in net sales due to our
sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil
, a
$0.7 billion
negative impact from
fluctuations in currency exchange rates
, the continued wind down of our first party Brazil eCommerce operations and a reduction in net sales of $140 million due to divesting our Suburbia business in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in net sales was due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and the impact of new stores, partially offset by a reduction in net sales of $1.9 billion due to
divesting our Yihaodian and Suburbia businesses
and a $0.5 billion negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Gross profit rate decreased
41
and 28 basis points for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was due to Flipkart and strategic price investments in certain markets.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease in the gross profit rate was primarily due to strategic price investments in certain markets.
Membership and other income decreased
22.4%
and 14.0% for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in fiscal
2019
was due to the prior year recognition of a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia.  While fiscal
2018
included the $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia and a $47 million gain from a land sale,
these gains were less than gains recognized in fiscal
2017
, which
included a $535 million gain from the sale of our Yihaodian business and a $194 million gain from the sale of shopping malls in Chile
.
35
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
37
basis points for fiscal
2019
and was flat for
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal
2019
was primarily due to impairment charges in the previous fiscal year of approximately $0.5 billion, which included charges from decisions to exit certain properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations; this decrease in operating expenses was partially offset by the addition of operating expenses from Flipkart in fiscal
2019
.  While fiscal
2018
was benefited by an increase in net sales, this benefit was offset by restructuring and impairment charges in certain markets of approximately $0.5 billion, including charges from decisions to exit certain properties and
wind down
the
first party Brazil eCommerce operations
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased
$346 million
and $508 million for fiscal
2019
and
2018
, respectively.
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2019
2018
2017
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
57,839
$
...
%
0.9
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
5.4
%
2.8
%
0.5
%
Operating income
$
1,520
$
915
$
1,628
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.6
%
1.5
%
2.8
%
Unit counts at period end
599
597
660
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
88
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
52,332
$
...
%
1.8
%
Operating income
$
1,383
$
797
$
1,576
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.6
%
1.5
%
3.0
%
(1)  We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment decreased
$1.4 billion
or
2.3%
...
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was primarily due to a $4.5 billion decrease in net sales resulting from the net closure of 63 clubs during fiscal
2018
, as well as reduced tobacco sales due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain locations.  These decreases were partially offset by increases in comparable sales, which were benefited by transfers of sales from our closed clubs to our existing clubs.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.9% to comparable sales for fiscal
2019
.  Additional fuel sales of
$0.7 billion
partially offset the decreases in net sales for fiscal
2019
.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in net sales was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales which were benefited by an increase of $0.7 billion in fuel sales from higher fuel prices.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal
2018
.
Gross profit rate was relatively flat for fiscal
2019
and decreased 44 basis points for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, gross profit rate was benefited by lapping the impact of markdowns to liquidate inventory related to club closures in fiscal
2018
and decreased tobacco sales in fiscal
2019
, which have lower margins.  This benefit to the gross profit rate was offset by higher transportation costs and eCommerce shipping costs, investments in price and increased shrink in fiscal 2019.  For fiscal
2018
, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to the impact of markdowns to liquidate inventory related to club closures, a reclassification of certain supply expenses from operating expenses to cost of goods sold, increased shrink, increased eCommerce shipping costs and the investment in cash rewards.
Membership and other income increased
2.6%
and 2.3% for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the increase was due to an increase of 1.5% in membership income resulting from increased Plus Member penetration and gains on property sales.  These increases were partially offset by lower recycling income when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2018
, the increase in membership and other income was primarily due to higher recycling income from our sustainability efforts and an increase of 1.3% in membership income resulting from increased Plus Member penetration.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
99
basis points for fiscal
2019
...
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales was primarily due to a charge of approximately $0.6 billion in the prior year's comparable period related to club closures and discontinued real estate projects.  This charge resulted in the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales in fiscal
2018
.
36
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased
$605 million
for fiscal
2019
...
or fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be adequate to fund operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2019
declined when compared to the previous fiscal year
primarily due to timing of vendor payments, partially offset by lower tax payments mainly resulting from Tax Reform and the timing of tax payments
. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2018
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was due to the timing of tax and other payments, as well as lapping the previous year's improvements in working capital management and the benefit from the application of tax regulations adopted in fiscal 2017.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital
Cash and cash equivalents were
$7.7 billion
and
...
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, respectively.  Our working capital deficit was
$15.6 billion
and
$18.9 billion
...
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, respectively.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.  The decreased working capital deficit as of
January 31, 2019
compared to
2018
was primarily due to higher current assets as a result of the consolidation of Flipkart.
Historically, we have used intercompany financing arrangements to make cash available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.  During fiscal 2019, we repatriated to the U.S.
$5.3 billion
of cash at a tax cost of approximately
$40 million
.
As of
...
January 31, 2019
, approximately
$1.2 billion
can only be accessed through dividends or intercompany financing arrangements subject to approval of the Flipkart minority shareholders; however, this cash is expected to be utilized to fund the operations of Flipkart.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2018
and
2017
, respectively, and generally consisted of payments for business acquisitions and to expand our eCommerce capabilities, invest in other technologies, remodel existing stores and club and add new stores and clubs.  Net cash used in investing activities increased
$15.0 billion
for fiscal
2019
when compared to the previous fiscal year.  This increase was primarily due to the
$13.8 billion
payment for Flipkart , net of cash acquired, as well as payments for other, smaller acquisitions.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased
$4.8 billion
for fiscal
2018
when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Fiscal
2018
included cash received of $1.0 billion from the sale of Suburbia in Mexico, while fiscal
2017
included our acquisition of Jet.com, Inc. ("jet.com") for $2.4 billion and our purchase of $1.9 billion of shares in JD.com ("JD").  Refer to
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our acquisition of jet.com and investment in JD.  Additionally, refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal
2019
and
2018
...
2020
("fiscal
2020
"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $11.0 billion.  In fiscal
2020
, we expect to add approximately 300 new stores in Walmart International, primarily in Mexico, Central America and China, and add less than 10 stores in Walmart U.S.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
$
(19,072
)
Net cash used in financing activities generally consists of transactions related to our short-term and long-term debt, financing obligations, dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.  Transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders are also classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Fiscal
2019
net cash used in financing activities decreased
$17.3 billion
when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The decrease was primarily due to the $15.9 billion of net proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt to fund a portion of the purchase price for Flipkart and for general corporate purposes, as well as a decrease in share repurchases due to the suspension of repurchases in anticipation of the Flipkart announcement.  Fiscal
2018
net cash used in financing activities increased
$0.8 billion
for fiscal
2018
when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The increase was primarily due to premiums paid for early extinguishment of debt.  Further discussion of financing activities is provided by major categories below.
Short-term Borrowings
Net cash flows provided by short-term borrowings were relatively flat in fiscal 2019 and increased
$4.1 billion
in fiscal
2018
, when compared to the balance at the end of the previous fiscal year.  We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements.  For fiscal
2018
, the additional cash provided by short-term borrowings was primarily due to the timing of our January 2018 debt extinguishment.
The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal
2019
,
2018
...
11,386
$
9,493
Average daily short-term borrowings
10,625
8,131
5,691
...
%
1.8
%
In addition to our short-term borrowings, we have
$15.0 billion
of
various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S.
...
various undrawn committed lines of credit outside of the U.S.
, as of
January 31, 2019
, that provide additional liquidity, if needed.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal
2019
:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2018
$
...
30,045
$
33,783
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
15,872
15,872
Payments of long-term debt
(3,763
)
(21
)
(3,784
)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
1,864
(1,864
)
...
43,520
$
45,396
Our total long-term debt increased
$11.6 billion
for fiscal
2019
, primarily due to the net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt to
fund a portion of the purchase price for Flipkart and for general corporate purposes
.
38
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were
$6.1 billion
,
$6.1 billion
...
February 19, 2019
, the fiscal
2020
annual dividend of
$2.12
per share, an increase over  the fiscal
2019
annual dividend of
$2.08
per share.  For fiscal
2020
, the annual dividend will be paid in
four
quarterly installments of
$0.53
...
September 3, 2019
December 6, 2019
January 2, 2020
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during
fiscal
2019
were made under the current
$20 billion
share repurchase program approved in October 2017, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.
As of
January 31, 2019
, authorization for
$11.3 billion
of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.
We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for
fiscal
2019
,
...
2017
:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2019
2018
2017
...
79.5
104.9
119.9
Average price paid per share
$
93.18
$
79.11
$
69.18
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
7,410
$
8,296
$
8,298
Share repurchases decreased for fiscal
2019
and were relatively flat for fiscal
2018
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in fiscal
2019
was due to the suspension of repurchases in anticipation of the announcement of the Flipkart acquisition.  Repurchases of Company stock returned to a more normalized level in the latter half of fiscal 2019.
Capital Resources
We believe cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, which include funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  As of
January 31, 2019
, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
39
Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth certain information concerning our obligations to make contractual future payments, such as debt and lease agreements, and certain contingent commitments as of
January 31, 2019
:
Payments Due During Fiscal Years Ending January 31,
...
2023-2024
Thereafter
Recorded contractual obligations:
Long-term debt
(1)
$
45,396
...
7,439
$
27,654
Short-term borrowings
5,225
5,225
—
—
—
Capital lease and financing obligations
(2)
9,896
917
...
1,260
6,069
Unrecorded contractual obligations:
Non-cancelable operating leases
(3)
14,118
1,856
3,075
2,296
6,891
Estimated interest on long-term debt
23,039
1,745
3,219
...
$
57,166
(1)
"Long-term debt" includes the fair value of our derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
(2)
"Capital lease and financing obligations" represents undiscounted aggregate minimum annual rentals, which are recorded on the balance sheet at present value.  Refer to
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
(3)
Represents minimum contractual obligation for non-cancelable leases with initial or remaining terms greater than 12 months as of
January 31, 2019
.
Under the terms of the sale of the majority stake of Walmart Brazil, we agreed to indemnify Advent for certain pre-closing tax and legal contingencies and other matters for up to
R$2.3 billion
, adjusted for interest based on the Brazilian interbank deposit rate.  As of
January 31, 2019
, the indemnification liability recorded was
$0.8 billion
and included in deferred income taxes and other in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Additionally, we have
$15.0 billion
of
...
of
various undrawn committed lines of credit outside of the U.S.
which, if drawn upon, would be included in the current liabilities section of the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of
January 31, 2019
, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate debt.
Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  For the purposes of the above table, contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the table above.  Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are not included in the table above as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.
The expected timing for payment discussed above is estimated based on current information.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
In addition to the amounts shown in the table above,
$1.3 billion
of unrecognized tax benefits are considered uncertain tax positions and have been recorded as liabilities.  The timing of the payment, if any, associated with these liabilities is uncertain.  Refer to
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of
January 31, 2019
, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
40
Other Matters
We discuss our existing FCPA investigation and related matters and possible effects of those matters on Walmart's business, including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein.  We discuss the "ASDA Equal Value Claims" which includes certain existing employment claims against our United Kingdom subsidiary, ASDA Stores, Ltd., including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein. We also discuss the National Prescription Opiate Litigation and related matters including certain risks arising therefrom, in
Part I, Item 1A
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies," and appears elsewhere herein.  We also discuss various legal proceedings related to the FCPA investigation, ASDA Equal Value Claims, and National Prescription Opiate Litigation in
Part I, Item 3
herein under the caption "Legal Proceedings."  The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the Company incurring a material liability upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies, how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Inventories
We value inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for Walmart U.S. segment's inventories.  The inventory at the Sam's Club segment is valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.  When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.  Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices.  As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% increase to our retail price indices would not have resulted in a decrease to the carrying value of inventory.  As of
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.
Impairment of Assets
We evaluate long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Management's judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and financial performance.  The evaluation of long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level.  The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in demographics.  Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period.  These factors could cause management to conclude that indicators of impairment exist and require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the related long-lived assets.  While fiscal 2019 included a pre-tax loss of $4.8 billion related to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil, which included full impairment of all related-assets, there were no other material impairment charges for fiscal 2019.  As a measure of sensitivity, fiscal 2019 impairment would not change materially with a 10% decrease in the undiscounted cash flows for the stores or clubs with indicators of impairment.  For fiscal 2018, although impairment charges were $1.4 billion, these charges
primarily related to restructuring activities described in
Note 14
,
as well as discontinued real estate projects in the U.S. and decisions to exit certain international properties
.  Impairment charges not related to restructuring activities or decisions to exit properties for fiscal 2019 and 2018 were not material.
41
Business Combinations, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, be recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition.  The determination of fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available. For intangible assets acquired in a business combination, we typically use the income method. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives. The excess of the purchase price over fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition.  Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics.
As of
January 31, 2019
, our reporting units consisted of Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired.  Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary.  If we determine, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed.  The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions.  These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based approach.  Historically, our reporting units and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have generated sufficient returns to recover the cost of goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets.  Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.  For approximately $300 million of certain acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value approximated the carrying value; any deterioration in the fair value may result in an impairment charge.
Income Taxes
Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally lower than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result.
Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  This determination requires the use of significant judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years.  Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies heavily on estimates.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law.  Effective beginning January 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments.  As discussed in
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act in fiscal 2019.  As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard–setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance.
42
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of our equity investment in JD.com.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal
2019
, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps
increased
$13 million
primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of
January 31, 2019
.
Expected Maturity Date
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
5,225
...
%
2.7
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
3.0
%
(1)
The long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the Company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges.
As of
January 31, 2019
, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented
22%
of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on
January 31, 2019
debt levels, a
100
basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately
$110 million
.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the U.S, as well our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt.  For fiscal
2019
, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the Company's subsidiaries in the UK, Chile, and Canada were the primary cause of the
$2.1 billion
loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in an asset position of
$62 million
and
$413 million
...
January 31, 2019
and
January 31, 2018
, respectively.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in fiscal
2019
.  A hypothetical 10% change in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate as of
January 31, 2019
...
$13 million
.
43
In addition to currency swaps, we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by designating foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations.  We had outstanding long-term debt of
£1.7 billion
as of
January 31, 2019
...
January 31, 2018
that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the United Kingdom.  As of
January 31, 2019
, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of
$201 million
.  In addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of
¥180 billion
as of
January 31, 2019
...
January 31, 2018
that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in Japan.  As of
January 31, 2019
, a hypothetical 10% change in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of
$150 million
.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to changes in the JD.com ("JD") stock price as a result of our equity investment in JD.  Since February 1, 2018, when we adopted the new financial instrument accounting standard, the change in fair value recorded within other gains and losses resulted in a loss of
$3.5 billion
due to a decrease in the stock price of JD.  As of
January 31, 2019
, the fair value of our equity investment in JD was
$3.6 billion
.
44
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended
January 31, 2019
...
49
Consolidated Balance Sheets
50
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
51
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
52
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
53
45
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2019
, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements").  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2019
, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
...
March 28, 2019
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of ASU No. 2016-01
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of measuring certain equity investments to fair value and recognizing the change in fair value in net income effective February 1, 2018, due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-01,
Financial Instruments-Overall (Topic 825)
.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
Rogers, Arkansas
March 28, 2019
46
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2019
, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
January 31, 2019
, based on the COSO criteria.
As indicated in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Flipkart Private Limited (“Flipkart”), except for the recognition of goodwill and intangible assets that were included in management’s assessment.  Flipkart is included in the 2019 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted approximately 2% of the Company’s total assets as of January 31, 2019 after excluding goodwill and intangible assets recorded and approximately 1% of the Company’s net sales for the year ended January 31, 2019.  Accordingly, our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Flipkart, except for the recognition of goodwill and intangible assets.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. as of
January 31, 2019
and
2018
, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2019
, and the related notes and our report dated
March 28, 2019
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2019
2018
2017
Revenues:
Net sales
$
510,329
$
495,761
$
481,317
Membership and other income
4,076
4,582
4,556
Total revenues
514,405
500,343
485,873
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
385,301
373,396
361,256
...
107,147
106,510
101,853
Operating income
21,957
20,437
22,764
Interest:
Debt
1,975
1,978
2,044
Capital lease and financing obligations
371
352
323
...
2,129
2,178
2,267
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
3,136
—
Other (gains) and losses
8,368
—
—
Income before income taxes
11,460
15,123
20,497
Provision for income taxes
4,281
4,600
6,204
Consolidated net income
7,179
10,523
14,293
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(509
)
(661
)
(650
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
6,670
$
9,862
$
13,643
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
2.28
$
3.29
$
4.40
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
2.26
3.28
4.38
...
2,929
2,995
3,101
Diluted
2,945
3,010
3,112
Dividends declared per common share
$
2.08
$
...
2019
2018
2017
Consolidated net income
$
7,179
$
10,523
$
14,293
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(509
)
(661
)
(650
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
6,670
9,862
13,643
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
(226
)
...
(405
)
413
Cash flow hedges
(290
)
437
...
147
(397
)
Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities
—
1,501
145
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
(113
)
4,220
...
4,051
(2,635
)
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
7,066
14,743
11,448
...
Inventories
44,269
43,783
Prepaid expenses and other
3,623
3,511
Total current assets
61,897
59,664
Property and equipment:
Property and equipment
185,810
185,154
Less accumulated depreciation
...
)
(77,479
)
Property and equipment, net
104,317
107,675
Property under capital lease and financing obligations:
Property under capital lease and financing obligations
12,760
12,703
Less accumulated amortization
...
)
(5,560
)
Property under capital lease and financing obligations, net
7,078
7,143
Goodwill
31,181
18,242
Other long-term assets
...
204,522
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
5,225
$
...
Accrued liabilities
22,159
22,122
Accrued income taxes
428
645
Long-term debt due within one year
1,876
3,738
Capital lease and financing obligations due within one year
729
667
Total current liabilities
77,477
78,521
Long-term debt
43,520
30,045
Long-term capital lease and financing obligations
6,683
6,780
Deferred income taxes and other
11,981
8,354
Commitments and contingencies
...
Capital in excess of par value
2,965
2,648
Retained earnings
80,785
85,107
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
)
(10,181
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
72,496
77,869
Noncontrolling interest
...
See accompanying notes.
50
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Total
Shares
...
3,065
$
83,611
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,643
650
14,293
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
)
(2,845
)
Cash dividends declared ($2.00 per share)
—
—
—
...
—
(8,276
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
77,798
2,737
80,535
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
9,862
661
10,523
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
4,051
169
4,220
Cash dividends declared ($2.04 per share)
—
—
—
...
—
(8,204
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
77,869
[Total relevant lines: 5137]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2019 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2020-03-20.html)
================================================================================
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:ParentMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:ParentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
2017-01-31
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
...
0000104169
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
wmt:NonrepatriableCashandCashEquivalentsFlipkartDomain
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccountingStandardsUpdate201602Member
...
wmt:AmountsDuefromBanksMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:NonrepatriableCashandCashEquivalentsDomain
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:NonrepatriableCashandCashEquivalentsDomain
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccountingStandardsUpdate201601Member
2018-02-01
0000104169
us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:TransportationEquipmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
srt:MinimumMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartStockOptionPlanMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:RestrictedStockMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartStockOptionPlanMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2017-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
...
2017-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1.125DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-04-11
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5.800DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-01
0000104169
wmt:A1.950DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-12-15
0000104169
wmt:A1.950DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5.800DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-15
0000104169
wmt:A1.125DebtDue2018Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousforRepaymentsMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A3.125DebtDue2021Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A3.950DebtDue2038Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A3.550DebtDue2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2021Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2021Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.050DebtDue2048Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A3.700DebtDue2028Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A4.050DebtDue2048Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.125DebtDue2021Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.700DebtDue2028Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.550DebtDue2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.400DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-06-27
0000104169
wmt:A3.400DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.950DebtDue2038Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:ForeignLineOfCreditMember
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingMember
...
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEuroMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
...
wmt:DenominatedYenwithVariableRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.050DebtDue2026Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-04-23
0000104169
wmt:A2.950DebtDue2049Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.250DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-04-23
0000104169
wmt:A2.950DebtDue2049Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-09-24
0000104169
wmt:A3.250DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-04-23
0000104169
wmt:A2.375DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-09-24
0000104169
wmt:A3.050DebtDue2026Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.375DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1.750DebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-10-20
0000104169
wmt:A4.125DebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousforRepaymentsMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.125DebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-10-20
0000104169
wmt:A1.750DebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartBrazilMember
2018-07-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2019-01-31
0000104169
2018-01-01
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DepartmentofJusticeMember
...
2019-06-30
0000104169
country:JP
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AsdaGroupPensionSchemeMember
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:JP
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:ForeignPlanMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2018-08-18
0000104169
wmt:WalmartBrazilMember
...
wmt:WalmartBrazilMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2018-08-18
2018-08-18
0000104169
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:CorporateAndSupportMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
country:US
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:US
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2017-02-01
2018-01-31
0000104169
country:US
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
country:US
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2018-10-31
wmt:banners
wmt:country
wmt:segment
wmt:stores
xbrli:shares
iso4217:USD
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☒
As o
f
July 31, 2019, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2019, was
$
155,125,468,742
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 3, 2020 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
7
Item 1A
Risk Factors
14
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
28
Item 6
Selected Financial Data
29
Item 7
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
44
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
46
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
79
Item 11
Executive Compensation
79
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
79
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
79
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31,
2020
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on
June 3, 2020
and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Wal-Mart Stores, Inc." prior to February 1, 2018 and named "Walmart Inc." commencing on February 1, 2018 and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements relate to:
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store openings;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, supply chain, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates and fuel prices affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund and finance our operations, expansion activities, dividends and share repurchases, to meet our cash needs and to fund our operations;
•
the insignificance of ineffective hedges; and reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result,"
4
"will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
Risks Factors and Uncertainties Affecting Our Business
Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, outside of our control.  One, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect any of those matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements and cause our actual results or an actual event or occurrence to differ materially from those results or an event or occurrence described in a forward-looking statement.  These risks, factors and uncertainties, which may be global in their effect or affect only some of the markets in which we operate and which may affect us on a consolidated basis or affect only some of our reportable segments, include, but are not limited to:
Economic Factors
•
economic, geo-political, capital markets and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
...
•
changes in market rates of interest;
•
changes in market levels of wages;
•
changes in the size of various markets, including eCommerce markets;
•
unemployment levels;
•
inflation or deflation, generally and in certain product categories;
•
transportation, energy and utility costs;
•
commodity prices, including the prices of oil and natural gas;
•
consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns, debt levels, and demand for certain merchandise;
•
trends in consumer shopping habits around the world and in the markets in which Walmart operates;
•
consumer enrollment in health and drug insurance programs and such programs' reimbursement rates and drug formularies; and
•
initiatives of competitors, competitors' entry into and expansion in Walmart's markets, and competitive pressures;
Operating Factors
•
the amount of Walmart's net sales and operating expenses denominated in U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies;
•
the financial performance of Walmart and each of its segments, including the amounts of Walmart's cash flow during various periods;
•
customer transaction and average ticket in Walmart's stores and clubs and on its eCommerce platforms;
•
the mix of merchandise Walmart sells and its customers purchase;
•
the availability of goods from suppliers and the cost of goods acquired from suppliers;
•
the effectiveness of the implementation and operation of Walmart's strategies, plans, programs and initiatives;
•
the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, store or club closures and other strategic decisions;
•
Walmart's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including within the eCommerce space;
•
unexpected changes in Walmart's objectives and plans;
•
the amount of shrinkage Walmart experiences;
•
consumer acceptance of and response to Walmart's stores and clubs, eCommerce platforms, programs, merchandise offerings and delivery methods;
•
Walmart's gross profit margins, including pharmacy margins and margins of other product categories;
•
the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel;
•
disruption of seasonal buying patterns in Walmart's markets;
•
disruptions in Walmart's supply chain;
•
cybersecurity events affecting Walmart and related costs and impact of any disruption in business;
•
Walmart's labor costs, including healthcare and other benefit costs;
•
Walmart's casualty and accident-related costs and insurance costs;
•
the size of and turnover in Walmart's workforce and the number of associates at various pay levels within that workforce;
•
the availability of necessary personnel to staff Walmart's stores, clubs and other facilities;
•
delays in the opening of new, expanded, relocated or remodeled units;
•
developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations to which Walmart is a party or is subject, and the liabilities, obligations and expenses, if any, that Walmart may incur in connection therewith;
•
changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's commercial paper and debt securities by credit rating agencies;
•
Walmart's effective tax rate; and
•
unanticipated changes in accounting judgments and estimates;
5
Regulatory and Other Factors
•
changes in existing tax, labor and other laws and changes in tax rates, including the enactment of laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations;
•
the imposition of new taxes on imports and new tariffs and changes in existing tariff rates;
•
the imposition of new trade restrictions and changes in existing trade restrictions;
•
...
•
one or more prolonged federal government shutdowns;
•
the timing and amount of federal income tax refunds;
•
natural disasters, changes in climate, catastrophic events and global health epidemics or pandemics such as the recent coronavirus outbreak; and
•
changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal buying patterns, which patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors.
Other Risk Factors; No Duty to Update
The above list of factors that may affect the estimates and expectations discussed in or implied or contemplated by forward-looking statements we make or are made on our behalf is not exclusive.  We are subject to other risks discussed under "
Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors
," and that we may discuss in Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under "Part II, Item 5," and in risks that may be discussed under "Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or may otherwise be disclosed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.  Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
6
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we")
helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through eCommerce.
Through innovation, we strive
to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for
our customers.  Each week, we serve over
265 million
customers who visit approximately
11,500
stores and numerous eCommerce websites under
56
banners in
27
countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2020
("fiscal
2020
...
2018
").  During fiscal
2020
, we generated total revenues of
$524.0 billion
, which primarily comprised net sales of
$519.9 billion
.
We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores.  In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico.  Since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of
January 31, 2020
, our Walmart International segment conducted business in
26
countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating walmart.com and then later that year, adding samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  Since 2016, we have made several eCommerce acquisitions which have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, as well as incubate digitally-native brands and expand our assortment on walmart.com and in stores.  In fiscal 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping and we created Store N
o
8, a technology incubator with a focus to drive eCommerce innovation.  Then in fiscal 2019, we continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives with the acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"),
an Indian-based eCommerce marketplace
, with an ecosystem that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra as well as PhonePe, a digital transaction platform.
In fiscal 2020, we launched NextDay Delivery to more than
75
percent of the U.S. population, launched Delivery Unlimited from
1,600
locations in the U.S. and expanded Same Day Pickup to nearly
3,200
locations.  Our eCommerce efforts and innovation have also led to omni-channel offerings in many of our markets including grocery pick up and/or delivery in nearly a dozen countries outside the U.S.  To date, we now have more than 6,100 grocery pick up and delivery locations globally.  We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, eCommerce sites, supply chain combined with our more than
2.2 million
associates to better serve our customers.  Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates customer relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination.
7
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  We define our segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.  Each of our segments contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  Each, however, has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  We sell similar individual products and services in each of our segments.  It is impracticable to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services.
We measure the results of our segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM.  When the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all
50
states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of
$341.0 billion
for fiscal
2020
...
66%
of our fiscal
2020
consolidated net sales, and had net sales of
$331.7 billion
and
$318.5 billion
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S.
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
, through services such as "Same Day Pickup," "Same Day Delivery," "Delivery Unlimited," "NextDay Delivery," and "Endless Aisle."  As of
January 31, 2020
, we had nearly 3,200 grocery pickup locations and over 1,600 delivery locations.  We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com.  We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated online through our websites or through a mobile app.  eCommerce sales may be fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers or our stores.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of
January 31, 2020
:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural & organics, deli & bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home/Seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise).
Walmart U.S. recently launched Walmart Media Group, an in-house advertising offering, to work with brands to influence shoppers.  Walmart U.S. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, money (wire) transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  Combined, these offerings total less than
1%
of annual net sales.
8
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as:  "Allswell," "Athletic Works,"  "Bonobos," "Equate," "EV1," "Everstart," "George,"  "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Scoop," "SwissTech," "Time and Tru" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Farberware" and "Russell."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day.  A variety of payment methods are accepted.  Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools that help better serve customers and be more efficient in stores, such as shelf-scanning robots, autonomous floor scrubbers, and automated unloading conveyor systems.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as eCommerce retailers.
Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.
We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and
•
Omni-channel offerings such as Same Day Pickup and Same Day Delivery, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store or has it delivered; Delivery Unlimited, where a customer can receive unlimited grocery delivery for an annual fee; as well as free two-day shipping without an annual membership fee and free NextDay Delivery on an assortment of best-selling items.
Distribution.
For fiscal
2020
, approximately
79%
of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our
162
distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 40 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers which includes eight temporary fulfillment centers.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operates in
26
countries outside of the U.S.  Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom, and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), India and Mexico. Walmart International previously operated in Brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019, as discussed in
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, asda.com, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites.  Walmart International had net sales of
$120.1 billion
for fiscal
2020
...
23%
of our fiscal
2020
consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $
120.8 billion
and
$118.1 billion
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively.  The segment's net sales were negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented.  The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.
9
Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates.  We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, including:
•
Acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart in August 2018.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil to Advent International (“Advent”) in August 2018.
•
Divestiture of the Walmart Chile
banking operations
in December 2018 and the divestiture of the Walmart Canada
banking operations
in April 2019.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
, such as through services like "Click & Collect" in the United Kingdom, our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets, our marketplaces, such as Flipkart in India, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as PhonePe in India.
Generally, retail units' selling area range in size from
1,400
square feet to
186,000
...
156,000
square feet. As of
January 31, 2020
, Walmart International had nearly 3,200 grocery pickup and/or delivery locations across its markets.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Lider,"  "Myntra," "PhonePe" and "Extra Special."  In addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
Walmart International competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses.
Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.
We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of
221
distribution facilities located in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, India and the United Kingdom.  Certain of these facilities are used to ship merchandise to both our stores and customers on our eCommerce platforms.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal
2020
, approximately
85%
of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the balance of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our
88
dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as more than
2,500
eCommerce sort centers in India.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in
44
states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.  Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of
$58.8 billion
for fiscal
2020
, representing
11%
of our consolidated fiscal 2020 net sales, and had net sales of $
57.8 billion
and
$59.2 billion
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
10
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
Eligible for Cash Rewards
Yes
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides 2% back on qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a
$500
cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash.  Plus Members are also eligible for Free Shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.
Omni-channel.
While Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club, it
provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce
.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between
32,000
and
...
square feet, with an average size of approximately
134,000
square feet.
Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications, providing services such as "Club Pickup" or the option of delivery direct-to-home.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel, tobacco and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music,  office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
In addition, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value.
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, most club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.  A variety of payment methods are accepted.  Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience in club.  For example, Sam's Garage, a new application in its tire and battery business, is leveraging technology in new ways to provide a personalized and efficient shopping experience.  Sam's Club also offers "Scan and Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete.
Distribution.
During fiscal
2020
, approximately
73%
of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from Sam's Club's
25
dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam's Club segment's club purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from Clubs, nine dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, two dedicated import facilities and other distribution centers.
11
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the U.S., from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of the annual sales for a number of our suppliers, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Employees
As of the end of fiscal
2020
, Walmart Inc. and our subsidiaries employed more than
2.2 million
employees ("associates") worldwide, with
1.5 million
associates in the U.S. and
0.7 million
associates internationally.  Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates.  We believe our relationships with our associates are good.  A large number of associates turn over each year, although Walmart U.S. turnover has improved in recent years as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates.
Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition to retirement-related benefits, in the U.S. we offer a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates.  These include a store discount card or Sam's Club membership, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of associate purchases of our stock through our Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance.  In addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the U.S., we offer maternity leave and a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates.  We also offer a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption.  Additionally, we offer eligible associates tuition assistance towards earning a college degree through "Live Better U," which allows associates to earn a college degree or certificate for the equivalent of $1 per day.  Similarly, in our operations outside the U.S., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.
12
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
48
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January  2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.
2016
51
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.  From January 2017 to May 2017, Ms. Brand was an Associate Professor of Law at George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School.  From August 2012 to February 2017, she served as a Board Member on the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board of the U.S. government.
2018
46
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
50
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.
2019
45
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC. From May 2014 until February 2018, he was Corporate Vice President at Microsoft Corporation.
2019
55
Marc Lore
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. eCommerce, effective September 2016.  From April 2014 to September 2016, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Jet.com, Inc.
2016
48
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.
2018
53
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective November 15, 2019.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain. Ms. McLay originally joined the Company in April 2015 as Vice President of U.S. Finance and Strategy.
2019
46
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
53
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020.  From April 2002 to January 2020, she served at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
52
13
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and senior financial officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Code of Ethics for the CEO and senior financial officers or our Statement of Ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
14
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Other segments are substantially reducing operations which could also result in competition rushing to fill the void created by such corporate actions. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, or reduction in operation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell or services we offer, our market share and the growth of our business.
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience for our customers and is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
.  Failure to successfully execute this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain eCommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our retail operations.  These arrangements may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance or business relationship could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
15
Operational Risks
Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events and catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; severe changes in climate; geo-political events; global health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the recent coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak; and catastrophic events, such as war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), in countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise) and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and the disruption in our communications with our stores. For example, our results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 were negatively impacted by riots and looting in Chile which resulted in us closing a number of our stores until the disruption abated.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located (such as the recent coronavirus outbreak which could result in potential disruptions or delays to our global supply chain), the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.  We are also subject to reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and such products also expose us to product liability or food safety claims.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.  In addition,
16
third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  Whether laws related to such sales apply to us is currently unsettled and any unfavorable changes could expose us to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position.  In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are controversial, counterfeit or otherwise fail to comply with applicable law.  Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such agreements. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth strategy.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations including nation states), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.  If our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media, online advertising, and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer various pickup and delivery programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyber-attacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including payment information and related risks discussed in this Item 1A. Such attacks, if successful, in addition to potential data misuse, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
17
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we receive and store in our information systems personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of hackers with a wide range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. Some of our systems have experienced limited security breaches and although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent vulnerabilities or defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.
Any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, modified, lost or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs.
In addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security compromise could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, security breaches or other compromises from known malware or other threats that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In certain circumstances,  our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
18
Additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders and check cashing and we sell prepaid cards and gift cards. We further offer co-branded credit cards and installment loans through financial services partners. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including global anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations as well as international, federal and state consumer financial laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation.
The Company also has compliance obligations associated with new privacy laws enacted to protect personal information. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, (CCPA), grants California consumers certain rights over their personal information and imposes stringent requirements on the collection, use and sharing of “personal information” of California consumers. Other U.S. states are proposing similar laws related to the protection of personal information and the U.S. federal government is also  considering federal privacy legislation. Outside the U.S., the European Union’s (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of EU law and adds a broad array of requirements related to personal data. Complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur additional costs and expenses. If we fail to comply with CCPA, GDPR or other privacy related regulations, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with them, it could lead to regulatory enforcement action, monetary fines or penalties (up to 4% of worldwide revenue in the case of GDPR), lawsuits or reputational damage and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
Changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, as well as the recent addition of  Walmart Health Centers to some of our U.S. stores. A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised
19
employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including management transitions within the Company's senior leadership, such as our recent leadership changes, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success.
If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.  Additionally, failure of Walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business in Africa, Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom.
During fiscal 2020, our Walmart International operations generated approximately
23%
of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as India), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
For example, during the current transition period following the UK’s recent exit from the European Union, we face continued uncertainty regarding the impact on our UK business of potential changes in tariffs, trade practices and other regulations  while the UK and EU work to put in place alternative trade and other arrangements.
20
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S..  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S..  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2020, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately
77%
of our consolidated net sales.  The federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs.  Potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S.  A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles.
For example, in December 2019, India enacted a bill which significantly reduced the corporate income tax for certain companies with operations in India. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations with additional guidance from the U.S. tax authority still pending.  As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act, including collecting information not regularly produced by the Company or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
21
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws and regulations specific to the environments in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.
Our pharmacy and other healthcare operations in the U.S. are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements and reimbursement arrangements.  The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Affordable Care Act, laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the "DEA"), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services.
For example, in the U.S. the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition, and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the U.S.  In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available, such as our money transfer agent services, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, sanctions, fraud and other illicit activity as well as consumer financial protection.  The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer.
Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.
22
We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. ("Asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in numerous "equal value" claims pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the "Employment Tribunal") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former Asda store employees, allege that the work performed by employees in Asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of employees working in Asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the difference in pay between these job positions disparately impacts women because more women work in retail stores while more men work in warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the pay difference is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis.  At present, we
cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters
.
The Company has been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids and is also a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804)
, currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Similar cases that name the Company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement. The Company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims and the related opioid matters.
We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
...
in the "
Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or shareholders in such capacity.
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, employee or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. This exclusive forum provision may limit a shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of
January 31, 2020
, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
36
24
216
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
12
25
191
Indiana
97
6
11
...
34
14
138
Maine
19
3
—
...
1
8
71
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
80,239
783,557
24
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of
January 31, 2020
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
—
367
15,992
China
412
26
—
438
70,163
India
—
28
—
...
—
333
19,832
Mexico
2,408
163
—
...
18
631
37,560
International total
5,815
313
18
6,146
344,949
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31,
2019
, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of
January 31, 2020
.
(2)
...
(3)
Square feet reported in thousands.
(4)
Africa unit counts primarily reside in South Africa, with other locations in Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
(5)
Central America unit counts reside in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
25
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of
January 31, 2020
:
Owned
Leased
(1)
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,069
687
4,756
Sam's Club retail units
513
86
599
Total U.S. retail units
4,582
773
5,355
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
108
54
162
Sam's Club distribution facilities
11
14
25
Total U.S. distribution facilities
119
68
187
...
4,701
841
5,542
International properties
Africa
37
405
...
196
171
367
China
2
436
438
India
2
26
28
...
54
279
333
Mexico
693
1,878
2,571
...
432
199
631
Total International retail units
1,953
4,193
6,146
International distribution facilities
34
187
221
Total International properties
1,987
4,380
6,367
...
6,688
5,221
11,909
Total retail units
6,535
4,966
11,501
Total distribution facilities
153
255
408
...
5,221
11,909
(1)
Also includes U.S. and international distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
26
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Contingencies," which is included in
Part II, Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.
We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Asda Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
National Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL").  The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes over 2,000 cases as of March 6, 2020; some cases are in the process of being transferred to the MDL or have remand motions pending; and there are over 200 additional state cases, including those remanded to state court, pending as of March 6, 2020.  The case citations for the state cases are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
II. CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS:
The Company has received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania seeking documents regarding the Company’s consumer fraud program and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company’s money transfer services, where Walmart is an agent. The most recent subpoena was issued in January 2020.  The Company has been responding to these subpoenas. The Company has also been responding to civil investigative demands from the United States Federal Trade Commission related to money transfers and the Company’s anti-fraud program.  Due to the investigative stage of these matters, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigations by the governmental entities.  While the Company does not currently believe that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters.  The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement.  For the matters listed below, management does not believe any possible loss or the range of any possible loss that may be incurred in connection with each matter, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In September 2018, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) notified the Company that it had initiated an administrative penalty action by issuing a Draft Consent Agreement and Final Order. The letter accompanying the Draft Consent Agreement and Final Order alleges that the Company distributed and/or sold three unregistered pesticide products from March to June, 2017. The EPA is seeking a penalty of $960,000. The manufacturer of the product is responsible for ensuring that a FIFRA-regulated product is properly registered prior to its sale. The Company is cooperating with the EPA.
In January 2018, the Environmental Prosecutor of the State of Chiapas (Procuraduría Ambiental del Estado de Chiapas) in Mexico imposed a fine of approximately $163,000 for the absence of an Environmental Impact Authorization License related to the store Mi Bodega Las Rosas. The Company is challenging the fine.
In April 2017, the California Air Resources Board (the "ARB") notified the Company that it had taken the position that retailers are required to use unclaimed deposits collected on sales of small containers of automotive refrigerant to fund certain consumer education programs. The ARB alleged that the Company had improperly retained approximately $4.2 million in unclaimed deposits and has sought reimbursement. The Company has denied any wrongdoing.
In April 2013, a subsidiary of the Company, Corporacion de Compañias Agroindustriales, operating in Costa Rica, became aware that the Municipality of Curridabat is seeking a penalty of approximately $380,000 in connection with the construction of a retaining wall for a perishables distribution center that is situated along a protected river bank. The subsidiary obtained permits from the Municipality and the Secretaria Técnica Nacional Ambiental at the time of construction, but the Municipality now alleges that the wall is non-conforming.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
217,840
holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ending through fiscal
2020
to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2015, in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2015
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year Ending January 31, 2020
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2015
...
150.73
147.24
179.17
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
118.07
140.38
...
216.05
253.36
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2020 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in October 2017, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases.  As of
January 31, 2020
, authorization for
$5.7 billion
of share repurchases remained.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
28
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended
January 31, 2020
, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
7,519,254
(1)  Represents the approximate dollar value of shares that could have been repurchased at the end of the month.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Five-Year Financial Summary
Walmart Inc.
As of and for the Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share and unit count data)
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
Operating results
Total revenues
$
523,964
$
...
485,873
$
482,130
Percentage change in total revenues from previous fiscal year
1.9
%
2.8
...
%
(0.7
)%
Net sales
$
519,926
$
...
481,317
$
478,614
Percentage change in net sales from previous fiscal year
1.9
%
2.9
...
%
(0.7
)%
Increase (decrease) in calendar comparable sales
(1)
in the U.S.
2.7
...
%
0.3
%
Walmart U.S.
2.9
%
3.7
...
%
1.0
%
Sam's Club
1.6
%
5.4
...
%
(3.2
)%
Gross profit margin
24.1
%
24.5
...
%
24.6
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales
20.9
%
21.0
...
%
20.3
%
Operating income
$
20,568
$
...
2,178
2,267
2,467
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
—
3,136
—
—
Other (gains) and losses
(1,958
)
8,368
—
—
—
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
14,881
6,670
9,862
13,643
14,694
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
5.19
$
...
4.38
$
4.57
Dividends declared per common share
2.12
2.08
2.04
...
198,825
$
199,581
Long-term debt and long-term lease obligations (excluding amounts due within one year)
64,192
50,203
36,825
42,018
44,030
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
74,669
72,496
77,869
77,798
80,546
Unit counts
Walmart U.S. segment
4,756
4,769
4,761
4,672
4,574
Walmart International segment
6,146
5,993
6,360
6,363
6,299
Sam's Club segment
599
599
597
...
11,695
11,528
(1)
Comparable sales include sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including sales from acquisitions when such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.
Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.
Comparable sales include fuel.
(2)
As described in
Note 1
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, on February 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02,
Leases (Topic 842)
under the modified retrospective approach, and thus financial statements prior to fiscal 2020 were not recast for the adoption of this standard.
29
ITEM 7.
...
January 31, 2018
("fiscal
2018
") should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated online or through mobile applications, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs.
Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.
Additionally, sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we updated our definition of what was previously referred to as traffic (a component, along with ticket, of comparable sales). Traffic is now referred to as "transactions" and measures a percentage change in the number of sales transactions in our comparable stores, as well as for comparable eCommerce activity.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars or for countries experiencing hyperinflation.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period’s currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period’s currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.
Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
Our business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as weather patterns.  Generally, our highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending
January 31
.
We have taken strategic actions to strengthen our portfolio for the long-term, including:
•
Acquisition of
81 percent
of the outstanding shares, or 77 percent of the diluted shares, of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart") in August 2018, which negatively impacted fiscal 2020 and 2019 net income.  Refer to
Note 12
for additional information on the transaction.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil to Advent International ("Advent") in August 2018, for which we recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.8 billion in fiscal 2019.  Refer to
Note 12
for additional information on the transaction.
•
Divestiture of banking operations in Walmart Chile and Walmart Canada in December 2018 and April 2019, respectively.
•
Asda made a $1.0 billion cash contribution to the Asda Group Pension Scheme (the "Plan") in October 2019 which enabled the Plan to purchase a bulk insurance annuity contract for the benefit of Plan participants in anticipation that each Plan participant will be issued an individual annuity contract.  The issuer of the individual annuity insurance contracts will be solely responsible for paying each participant’s benefits in full and will release the Plan and Asda from any future obligations. Once all Plan participants have been issued individual annuity contracts, we currently
30
estimate that we will recognize a total, pre-tax charge of approximately $2.2 billion related to the pension settlement in late fiscal 2021 or early fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 11
for additional information on the transaction.
We operate in the highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce businesses. Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence.  We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality employees ("associates").  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather, global health epidemics, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, cost of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, deflation, inflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Additionally, we are monitoring the potential impact of the recent coronavirus outbreak to our global business.  Its financial impact is unknown at this time.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
," and under "
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
."
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial framework as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
strategic capital allocation.
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expanding omni-channel initiatives while slowing the rate of growth of new stores and clubs.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar.
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal
2020
and
2019
...
2019
2020
2019
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
2.9%
3.7%
0.0%
0.1%
Sam's Club
1.6%
5.4%
0.8%
...
4.0%
0.1%
0.4%
Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased
2.9%
and
3.7%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively, driven by ticket and transactions growth.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
1.7%
and 1.3% to comparable sales for fiscal
2020
and
2019
, respectively, as we continue to focus on a
seamless omni-channel experience for our customers
.  Sam's Club comparable sales increased
1.6%
and
5.4%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively.  Sam's Club comparable sales for both fiscal
2020
and
2019
benefited from growth in transactions and higher fuel sales, which were partially offset by lower ticket due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations.  Sam's Club fiscal
2019
comparable sales were further aided by transfers of sales from our closed clubs to our existing clubs.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
1.5%
and 0.9% to comparable sales for fiscal
2020
and
2019
, respectively.
31
Consistent Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2020
2019
Net sales
$
519,926
$
...
%
0.6
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.9
%
21.0
%
For fiscal
2020
, operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased
8
basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year
due to our focus on expense management combined with our growth in comparable store sales.  These improvements were partially offset by $0.9 billion in business restructuring charges consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology, and other business restructuring charges due to strategic decisions that resulted in the write down of certain assets in the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments.
For fiscal 2019, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 48 basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The primary drivers of the expense leverage were strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and lapping of certain fiscal 2018 charges. The improvements in fiscal 2019 were partially offset by additional investments in eCommerce and technology, as well as a $160 million charge related to a securities class action lawsuit.
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes improving our customer-facing initiatives in stores and clubs and creating a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.  As such, we are allocating more capital to eCommerce, technology, supply chain, and store remodels and less to new store and club openings, when compared to prior years.  Total fiscal 2020 capital expenditures increased slightly compared to the prior year; the following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2020
2019
eCommerce, technology, supply chain and other
$
5,643
$
...
7,904
$
7,683
Walmart International
2,801
2,661
Total capital expenditures
$
10,705
$
10,344
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively. The increase in ROA was primarily due to the increase in consolidated net income primarily due to the change in fair value of the investment in JD.com and lapping the $4.5 billion net loss recorded in fiscal
2019
related to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil, partially offset by the dilution to operating income related to Flipkart.  ROI was
13.4%
and
14.2%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively.  The decrease in ROI was due to the decrease in operating income primarily as a result of the dilution from Flipkart as well as business restructuring charges recorded in fiscal 2020.  The denominator remained relatively flat as the increase in average total assets due to the acquisition of Flipkart was offset by the decrease in average invested capital resulting from the removal of the eight times rent factor upon adoption of ASU 2016-02,
Leases
("ASU 2016-02") since operating lease right of use assets are now included in total assets.
32
We define ROI as operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period.  Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02, rent for the trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of 8 is no longer included in the calculation of ROI on a prospective basis as operating lease assets are now capitalized.  For fiscal 2020, lease related assets and associated accumulated amortization are included in the denominator at their carrying amount as of the current balance sheet date, rather than averaged, because they are no longer directly comparable to the prior year calculation which included rent for the trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of 8.  A two-point average will be used for leased assets beginning in fiscal 2021, after one full year from the date of adoption of the new lease standard.  Further, beginning prospectively in fiscal 2020, rent expense in the numerator excludes short-term and variable lease costs as these costs are not included in the operating lease right of use asset balance.
Prior to adoption of ASU 2016-02, we defined ROI as operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We considered average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of 8, which estimated the hypothetical capitalization of our operating leases. Because the new lease standard was adopted under the modified retrospective approach as of February 1, 2019, our calculation of ROI for fiscal 2019 was not revised.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI. As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; and adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.  Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2019
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
15,201
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
20,568
$
...
+ Rent
2,670
3,004
ROI operating income
$
34,414
$
...
2020
2019
2018
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
236,495
...
219,295
$
204,522
Leased assets, net
21,841
7,078
NP
Total assets without leased assets, net
214,654
212,217
NP
...
94,514
87,175
83,039
Accumulated amortization on leased assets
4,694
5,682
NP
Accumulated depreciation and amortization, without leased assets
89,820
81,493
NP
...
22,159
22,122
(1)  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the corresponding prior period and dividing by 2.  Average total assets as used in ROA includes the average impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02
(2)  For fiscal 2020, as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, average total assets is based on the average of total assets without leased assets, net plus leased assets, net as of January 31, 2020. Average accumulated depreciation and amortization is based on the average of accumulated depreciation and amortization, without leased assets plus accumulated amortization on leased assets as of January 31, 2020.
NP = Not provided.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See
Liquidity and Capital Resources
for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of
$25.3 billion
,
$27.8 billion
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of
$14.6 billion
,
$17.4 billion
...
2020
declined when compared to fiscal
2019
primarily due to the contribution to our Asda pension plan in anticipation of its future settlement, the inclusion of a full year of Flipkart operations, and the timing of vendor payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal
2020
declined when compared to fiscal
2019
due to the same reasons as the decline in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.4 billion in increased capital expenditures
.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2019
declined when compared to fiscal
2018
was primarily due to timing of vendor payments, partially offset by lower tax payments mainly resulting from the Tax Act and the timing of tax payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal
2019
declined when compared to fiscal 2018 due to the same reasons as the decline in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.3 billion in increased capital expenditures.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2020
...
27,753
$
28,337
Payments for property and equipment
(10,705
)
(10,344
)
(10,051
)
Free cash flow
$
14,550
$
...
)
(19,875
)
(1)  "Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
34
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2020
2019
2018
Total revenues
$
523,964
$
...
%
3.0
%
Net sales
$
519,926
$
...
%
3.0
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
2.7
%
4.0
%
2.2
%
Gross profit rate
24.1
%
24.5
%
24.7
%
Operating income
$
20,568
$
21,957
$
20,437
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.0
%
4.3
%
4.1
%
Consolidated net income
$
15,201
$
7,179
$
10,523
Unit counts at period end
(1)
11,501
11,361
11,718
Retail square feet at period end
(1)
1,129
1,129
1,158
(1)  Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end. Permanently closed locations are not included.
Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased
$9.6 billion
or
1.9%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  These increases in revenues were due to increases in net sales, which increased
$9.6 billion
or
1.9%
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, along with the addition of net sales from Flipkart, which we acquired in August 2018, and positive comparable sales in the majority of our international markets.  These increases were partially offset by
$4.1 billion
of negative impact from
fluctuations in currency exchange rates
in fiscal 2020 and our sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil in August 2018.  For fiscal
2019
, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, along with positive comparable sales in the majority of our International markets and net sales from Flipkart, which we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  Additionally, for fiscal 2019, the increase in net sales was partially offset by a $4.5 billion decrease in net sales due to club closures in the Sam's Club segment during fiscal 2018, a $3.1 billion reduction in net sales due to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil in the International segment, and $0.7 billion of negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Our gross profit rate decreased
40
and 18 basis points for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, these decreases were primarily due to price investment in the Walmart U.S. segment and the addition of Flipkart in the Walmart International segment, partially offset by favorable merchandise mix including strength in private brands and less pressure from transportation costs in the Walmart U.S. segment.  For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was due to the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business, the acquisition of Flipkart, our planned pricing strategy and increased transportation expenses.
For fiscal
2020
, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased
8
basis points, when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year
due to our focus on expense management combined with our growth in comparable store sales.  These improvements were partially offset by $0.9 billion in business restructuring charges consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology, and other business restructuring charges due to strategic decisions that resulted in the write down of certain assets in the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments.
For fiscal 2019, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 48 basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The primary drivers of the expense leverage were strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and lapping approximately $1.8 billion in certain charges in fiscal 2018.  The improvements in fiscal 2019 were partially offset by additional investments in eCommerce and technology, as well as a $0.2 billion charge related to a securities class action lawsuit.
Other gains and losses consisted of a gain of
$2.0 billion
for fiscal
2020
...
$8.4 billion
for fiscal
2019
.  The gain in fiscal 2020 was primarily the result of a $1.9 billion increase in the market value of our investment in JD.com.  The loss in fiscal 2019 is primarily the result of the $4.8 billion pre-tax loss on the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil and a $3.5 billion decrease in the market value of our investment in JD.com.  Fiscal 2018 results included loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.1 billion.
35
Our effective income tax rate was
24.4%
for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, and 30.4% for fiscal
2018
.  The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 is primarily due to the fiscal 2019 loss on sale of a majority stake in Walmart Brazil, which increased the comparative period's effective tax rate, as it provided minimal realizable tax benefit.  The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 is primarily due to the aforementioned loss on sale of a majority stake in Walmart Brazil and Flipkart's results.  Additionally, our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that, beginning in fiscal 2019, are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal
2020
,
2019
...
$15.2 billion
and
$7.2 billion
of consolidated net income for fiscal
2020
and
2019
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was
$5.19
,
$2.26
...
and
2018
, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2020
2019
2018
Net sales
$
341,004
$
...
%
3.5
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
2.9
%
3.7
%
2.1
%
Operating income
$
17,380
$
17,386
$
16,995
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.1
%
5.2
%
5.3
%
Unit counts at period end
4,756
4,769
4,761
Retail square feet at period end
703
705
705
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased
$9.3 billion
or
2.8%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable store sales of
2.9%
and
3.7%
...
2020
and
2019
, respectively, driven by ticket and transaction growth.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.7% and 1.3% to comparable sales for fiscal
2020
and
2019
.
Gross profit rate decreased
14
and 28 basis points for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the decreases were primarily the result of continued price investments which were partially offset by better merchandise mix, including strength in private brands, and less pressure from transportation costs. For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was primarily due to our planned pricing strategy, increased transportation expenses, and the mix effects from our growing eCommerce business.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
4
basis points for fiscal
2020
and decreased 23 basis points for fiscal
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  We leveraged operating expenses in fiscal 2020 as a result of strong sales and productivity improvements which were mostly offset by business restructuring charges of $0.5 billion consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology and other business restructuring charges due to decisions that resulted in the write down of certain eCommerce assets. The decrease in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to strong sales performance in conjunction with productivity improvements and the prior year comparable period including charges related to discontinued real estate projects of $0.2 billion. These improvements more than offset investments in eCommerce, technology and omni-channel initiatives and raising the starting wage rate at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased
$6 million
and increased $391 million for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous fiscal year.
36
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2020
2019
2018
Net sales
$
120,130
$
...
%
1.7
%
Operating income
$
3,370
$
4,883
$
5,229
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.8
%
4.0
%
4.4
%
Unit counts at period end
6,146
5,993
6,360
Retail square feet at period end
345
344
373
Net sales for the Walmart International segment decreased
$0.7 billion
or
0.6%
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the decrease was primarily due to negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $4.1 billion as well as a reduction in sales due to our sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil in August 2018, offset by a full year of net sales from Flipkart and positive comparable sales growth in the majority of our markets.
For fiscal
2019
, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and net sales from Flipkart, which we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. These increases were partially offset by a $3.1 billion reduction in net sales due to our sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil, a $0.7 billion negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the continued wind down of our first party Brazil eCommerce operations and a reduction in net sales of $140 million due to divesting our Suburbia business in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Gross profit rate decreased
136
and 41 basis points for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the decrease was primarily due to Flipkart, as well as a change in merchandise mix. For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was due to Flipkart and strategic price investments in certain markets.
Membership and other income decreased
1.1%
and 22.4% for fiscal
2020
...
2020
was primarily due to currency while fiscal
2019
decreased due to the prior year recognition of a $387 million gain from the sale of Suburbia.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
13
basis points for fiscal
2020
and 37 basis points for
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal
2020
was primarily due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and cost discipline across multiple markets, partially offset by $0.4 billion in impairment charges which was due primarily to the write-off of the carrying value of one of Flipkart's two fashion trade names, Jabong.com, as a result of a strategic decision to focus our efforts on a single fashion platform in order to simplify the business and customer proposition.  Fiscal
2019
decreased primarily due to impairment charges in the previous fiscal year of approximately $0.5 billion, which included charges from decisions to exit certain properties and wind down the first party Brazil eCommerce operations; this decrease in operating expenses was partially offset by the addition of operating expenses from Flipkart in fiscal 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased
$1.5 billion
and $0.3 billion for fiscal
2020
and
2019
, respectively.
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2020
2019
2018
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
58,792
$
...
)%
3.2
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
1.6
%
5.4
%
2.8
%
Operating income
$
1,642
$
1,520
$
915
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.8
%
2.6
%
1.5
%
Unit counts at period end
599
599
597
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
52,792
$
...
)%
2.2
%
Operating income
$
1,486
$
1,383
$
797
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.8
%
2.6
%
1.5
%
(1)  We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.  Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment.
37
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased
$1.0 billion
or
1.6%
...
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the increases were primarily due to comparable sales, including fuel, of
1.6%
. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and higher fuel sales, which were partially offset by lower ticket due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.5% to comparable sales. For fiscal
2019
, the decrease was primarily due to a $4.5 billion decrease in net sales resulting from the net closure of 63 clubs during fiscal 2018, as well as reduced tobacco sales due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain locations. These decreases were partially offset by increases in comparable sales, which were benefited by transfers of sales from our closed clubs to our existing clubs. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.9% to comparable sales for fiscal 2019.  Additional fuel sales of $0.7 billion partially offset the decreases in net sales for fiscal 2019.
Gross profit rate decreased
11
basis points for fiscal
2020
and remained relatively flat for fiscal
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The gross profit rate decreased due to investments in price and higher eCommerce fulfillment costs, partially offset by reduced tobacco sales, which have lower margins. For fiscal
2019
, gross profit rate was benefited by lapping the impact of markdowns to liquidate inventory related to club closures in fiscal 2018 and decreased tobacco sales in fiscal 2019.  This benefit to the gross profit rate was offset by higher transportation costs and eCommerce shipping costs, investments in price and increased shrink in fiscal 2019.
Membership and other income increased
4.7%
and 2.6% for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the increase was primarily due to growth in total members, which benefited from higher overall renewal rates and higher Plus Member penetration along with gains on property sales and other income. For fiscal
2019
, the increase was due to an increase of 1.5% in membership income resulting from increased Plus Member penetration and gains on property sales. These increases were partially offset by lower recycling income when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased
19
and 99 basis points for fiscal
2020
...
2019
, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal
2020
, the decrease was primarily the result of lower labor-related costs and a charge of approximately $50 million related to lease exit costs in the prior comparable period. These benefits were partially offset by a reduction in sales of tobacco and a higher level of technology investment. For fiscal
2019
, the decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales was primarily due to a charge of approximately $0.6 billion in the prior year's comparable period related to club closures and discontinued real estate projects.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased
$122 million
for fiscal
2020
...
or fiscal
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be adequate to fund operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2018
, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2020
decreased when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to the contribution to our Asda pension plan in anticipation of its future settlement, the inclusion of a full year of Flipkart operations, and the timing of vendor payments. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal
2019
, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to timing of vendor payments, partially offset by lower tax payments mainly resulting from Tax Reform and the timing of tax payments.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were
$9.5 billion
and
...
January 31, 2020
and
2019
, respectively.  Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was
$16.0 billion
and
$15.6 billion
...
January 31, 2020
and
2019
, respectively.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
38
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. While we are awaiting anticipated technical guidance from the IRS and the U.S. Treasury department, we do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations or potential taxes on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.
As of
January 31, 2020
and
...
January 31, 2020
, approximately
$0.6 billion
can only be accessed through dividends or intercompany financing arrangements subject to approval of the Flipkart minority shareholders; however, this cash is expected to be utilized to fund the operations of Flipkart.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2019
and
2018
, respectively, and generally consisted of payments for business acquisitions and to expand our eCommerce capabilities, invest in other technologies, remodel existing stores and club and add new stores and clubs.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased
$14.9 billion
for fiscal
2020
when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily as a result of the $13.8 billion payment for the acquisition of Flipkart, net of cash acquired, as well as payments for other, smaller acquisitions in fiscal 2019.  Net cash used in investing activities increased
$15.0 billion
for fiscal
2019
...
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal
2020
and
2019
...
2021
("fiscal
2021
"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately
$11
billion, with a focus on store remodels and customer initiatives, eCommerce, technology, and supply chain. We also expect to add approximately 250 new stores in Walmart International, primarily in Mexico and China.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
$
(19,875
)
Net cash used in financing activities generally consists of transactions related to our short-term and long-term debt, financing obligations, dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.  Transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders are also classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Fiscal
2020
net cash used in financing activities increased
$11.8 billion
when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The increase was primarily due to the $15.9 billion of net proceeds received in the prior year from the issuance of long-term debt to fund a portion of the purchase price for Flipkart partially offset by $5.5 billion of additional long-term debt in the current year to fund general business operations.  Fiscal
2019
net cash used in financing activities decreased
$17.3 billion
for fiscal
2019
when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The decrease was primarily due to the $15.9 billion of net proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt to fund a portion of the purchase price for Flipkart and for general corporate purposes, as well as a decrease in share repurchases due to the suspension of repurchases in anticipation of the Flipkart announcement.
Short-term Borrowings
Net cash flows used in short-term borrowings increased in fiscal 2020 and were relatively flat in fiscal
2019
.  We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements.  For fiscal
2020
, the additional cash used in short-term borrowings was primarily due to long-term debt issuances being used to pay down short-term borrowings.
The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal
2020
,
2019
...
13,389
$
11,386
Average daily short-term borrowings
7,120
10,625
8,131
...
%
1.3
%
In addition to our short-term borrowings, we have
$15.0 billion
of
various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S.
...
various undrawn committed lines of credit outside of the U.S.
, as of
January 31, 2020
, that provide additional liquidity, if needed.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal
2020
:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2019
$
...
43,520
$
45,396
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
5,492
5,492
Payments of long-term debt
(1,907
)
[Total relevant lines: 5963]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2020 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2021-03-19.html)
================================================================================
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
...
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
wmt:segment
0000104169
wmt:AmountsDuefromBanksMember
2021-01-31
...
wmt:NonrepatriableCashAndCashEquivalentsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
wmt:NonrepatriableCashAndCashEquivalentsFlipkartMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:PrepaidExpensesAndOtherCurrentAssetsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccruedLiabilitiesMember
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:AccumulatedCurrencyTranslationAndOtherAdjustmentsAttributableToParentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2018-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:AccumulatedCurrencyTranslationAndOtherAdjustmentsAttributableToParentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:AccumulatedCurrencyTranslationAndOtherAdjustmentsAttributableToParentMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:AccumulatedCurrencyTranslationAndOtherAdjustmentsAttributableToParentMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossAttributableToParentMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedNetUnrealizedInvestmentGainLossMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentMember
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithVariableRateMember
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithVariableRateMember
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithVariableRateMember
...
wmt:DenominatedYenMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-04-23
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3.050DebtDue2026Member
2019-04-23
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3.050DebtDue2026Member
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.250DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-04-23
0000104169
wmt:A3.250DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.375DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-09-24
0000104169
wmt:A2.375DebtDue2029Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A2.950DebtDue2049Member
2019-09-24
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A2.950DebtDue2049Member
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2020Member
2020-06-23
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-06-23
0000104169
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3630DebtDue2020Member
2020-07-08
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3630DebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
iso4217:JPY
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A1600DebtDue2020Member
2020-07-28
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A1600DebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3250DebtDue2020Member
2020-10-25
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3250DebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-12-15
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A4.125DebtDue2019Member
2019-02-01
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A4.125DebtDue2019Member
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-10-20
0000104169
wmt:VariableRateDebtDue2019Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A1.750DebtDue2019Member
2019-10-20
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A1.750DebtDue2019Member
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousforRepaymentsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:VariousRatesDueVariousforRepaymentsMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AsdaMember
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2041Member
2021-01-31
wmt:claim
0000104169
wmt:AsdaEqualValueLawsuitMember
2021-01-31
...
wmt:WalmartBrazilMember
2018-10-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2018-08-18
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2018-08-18
2018-08-18
0000104169
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2018-02-01
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
country:US
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:GroceryMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:GroceryMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:GB
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:GB
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2020, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2020, was $
182,886,052,366
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2021 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
14
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
31
Item 6
Selected Financial Data
32
Item 7
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
48
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
50
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
82
Item 11
Executive Compensation
82
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
82
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
82
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2021
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 2, 2021 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store openings;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, supply chain, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
our workforce strategy;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected,"
4
"may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Each week, we serve over 240 million customers who visit approximately 11,400 stores and numerous eCommerce websites under 54 banners in 26 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020") and January 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019").  During fiscal 2021, we generated total revenues of $559.2 billion, which was primarily comprised of net sales of $555.2 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2021, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 25 countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  To date, we now have approximately 7,300 pickup and 5,200 delivery locations globally.  In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, as well as made several eCommerce acquisitions to better serve our customers.  These investments have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings in stores and on walmart.com.  We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives internationally, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra as well as PhonePe, a digital transaction platform.
In fiscal 2021, we launched Walmart+ in the U.S., a new membership offering with omni-channel shopping benefits that currently include unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, and mobile scan & go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience.  We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, eCommerce sites and supply chain combined with our more than 2.3 million associates as of January 31, 2021 to better serve our customers.  Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates customer relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination.
During fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  While we have incurred incremental costs associated with operating during a global health crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic has also accelerated our business growth and eCommerce expansion.  We have continued to invest in our omni-channel offering which resonates with customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
6
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.  The Company also engaged in operations in the U.K. and Japan, both of which were classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021.  We also operated in Argentina and Brazil prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in November 2020 and the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019.  Refer to
Note
12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures.  Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below.  Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of $370.0 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 67% of our fiscal 2021 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $341.0 billion and $331.7 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options.  As of January 31, 2021, we had approximately 3,750 pickup locations and 3,000 delivery locations.  Our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members.  We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com.  We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2021:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
221,000
106,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)     Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli & bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed & bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and clinical services.
Walmart U.S. recently launched Walmart+, a membership offering providing omni-channel shopping benefits such as unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimums, as well as delivery and other benefits which help customers save more time and money.  Walmart U.S. also offers an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, as well as quality, affordable, and accessible healthcare via Walmart Health.
Additional service offerings include fuel and financial services and related products, such as money orders, prepaid cards, money (wire) transfers, check cashing and bill payment.  Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works,"  "Bonobos," "Eloquii,"
7
"Equate," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George,"  "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "SwissTech," "Time and Tru" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Farberware," "Pioneer Woman" and "Russell."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Historically, many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets were generally open 24 hours each day.  In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we reduced store hours to allow for additional cleaning and sanitizing but expanded store hours slightly toward the end of fiscal 2021.
Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services that help better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery,  Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.  However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as eCommerce retailers.  Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These programs include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and
•
Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our new Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served.
Distribution.
For fiscal 2021, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 156 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  The remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 32 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship directly from approximately 3,000 stores.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 25 countries outside of the U.S as of January 31, 2021.  Walmart International operated through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, and China, as well as our businesses classified as held for sale in Japan and the United Kingdom as of January 31, 2021.  Walmart International also operates through our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), India and Mexico. Walmart International previously operated in Argentina and Brazil prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019. Refer to
Note
12
for discussion of recent divestitures.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites.  Walmart International had net sales of $121.4 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 22% of our fiscal 2021 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $120.1 billion and $120.8 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The segment's net sales were negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented.  The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.
8
Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates.  We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart in August 2018.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil in August 2018.
•
...
•
Divestiture of Walmart Argentina in November 2020.
•
Divestiture of Asda Group Limited ("Asda”), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021.
•
Divestiture of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets, our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as PhonePe in India.  In China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia provide customers one-hour delivery by leveraging Walmart stores as fulfillment centers.
Generally, retail units' selling area range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores' selling area generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 156,000 square feet. As of January 31, 2021, Walmart International had approximately 3,000 pickup and 2,200 delivery locations.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Lider,"  "Myntra," and "PhonePe."  In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Walmart International also offers fuel, financial services and related products in various markets. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money (wire) transfers, and our PhonePe business in India provides a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising.  Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation.  Toward the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, government mandates led to extensive store and operational closures in several of our international markets as well as limitations on certain merchandise sales in select markets.  While most closed stores and warehouses  resumed operations by the end of fiscal 2021, store hours have been partially reduced or modified in several markets.  Additionally, several markets implemented enhanced safety and sanitization protocols, as well as provided increased customer options and capacity for pickup and delivery services.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, its highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.  However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition.
Walmart International competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses.  Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
9
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 221 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and South Africa, as well as Japan and the United Kingdom, whose operations are classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021, and subsequently divested in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal 2021, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 83 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, more than 2,800 eCommerce sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities in India, as well as our physical retail stores.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.  Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of $63.9 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 11% of our consolidated fiscal 2021 net sales, and had net sales of $58.8 billion and $57.8 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
Eligible for Cash Rewards
Yes
No
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides 2% back on qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually.  The amount earned can be used for purchases or redeemed for cash.  Plus Members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.
Omni-channel.
Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club which provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan & Go, and ship-from-club.  Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel, tobacco and other categories consists of gasoline stations and tobacco;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses, and tire and battery centers;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances, and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
In addition, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value.
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, most club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 8:00 a.m.  While store operating hours generally remained stable during the COVID-19 pandemic, designated “Hero Hours” were also established for first responders, health care workers, and associates.  Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience.  During the pandemic, Curbside Pickup was launched at all clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members.
Sam's Club also offers "Scan & Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
10
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.  However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete and recently enabled the launch of Curbside Pickup across all clubs.
Distribution.
During fiscal 2021, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from Sam's Club's 27 dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  Suppliers shipped the remainder of the Sam's Club segment's club purchases directly to Sam's Club locations.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 11 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of the annual sales for a number of our suppliers, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions.  For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A
.
Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption “Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks".
11
Human Capital Management
Our commitment to help people around the world save money and live better is delivered by our associates who make the difference for our customers every day.  As of the end of fiscal 2021, we employed more than 2.3 million associates worldwide, with 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and 0.7 million associates internationally.  In the U.S., approximately 94% of these associates are hourly and approximately 64% are full-time.
We believe the strength of our workforce is a significant contributor to our success.  Walmart is a place of opportunity, not only as a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers, but also a place where people can grow in their careers across our global omni-channel business.  As customer demands and technology change the nature of work, we need to attract, develop and retain associates to thrive in an ever-changing omni-channel environment. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions.  We believe our focus on improving career paths for our associates through robust training, competitive wages, new ways of working, and opportunities for advancement has improved turnover in the U.S. over the past few years.
Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities:
Inclusion
-
Build a Walmart for everyone: a diverse, equitable and inclusive company, where associates' ideas and opinions matter
. We are focused on creating an inclusive culture and a diverse associate base, where all associates believe they belong and are empowered to be themselves, which we believe is important in serving our customers now and in the future. Management provides recurring culture, diversity, equity and inclusion updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and the Compensation, Management and Development Committee of the Board of Directors.  Of the more than 2.3 million associates employed worldwide, 54% identify as women.  In the U.S., 47% of the 1.6 million associates identify as ethnically diverse.
We review our processes regarding our commitment to fair-pay practices.  We are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance and the type of work they do.
To build a company where associates feel valued and heard, we gather and respond to associates’ feedback in a variety of ways, including but not limited to an anonymous, periodic, formal, associate engagement survey, our Open Door process, and one-on-one interactions.  Management reviews the results of feedback obtained from our formal associate engagement survey.  Feedback and suggestions received through these channels have led to meaningful changes in our business, including a new U.S. attendance policy, for example.
Well-being
-
Focus on the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates.
We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages including bonuses based on Company performance, as well as a broad range of benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements and believe these investments in our associates are important to our future.  In the U.S., we offer affordable healthcare coverage to our full-time and eligible part-time associates, as well as Company paid benefits such as a store discount card or Sam's Club membership, 401(k) match, maternity leave, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance and behavioral health services.  Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In fiscal 2021, we added incremental benefits to support associate health and well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic. We provided extra pay and benefits, including special cash bonuses totaling $1.6 billion, and the introduction of the COVID-19 Emergency Leave Policy in the U.S.  See "
COVID-19 Updates
" in Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding our response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Growth
-
Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills.
To help associates acquire the experiences and skills needed for success in the jobs of today and tomorrow, we have invested in their development – including new roles and career paths, cross-training, on-the-job coaching, and formal, classroom-style training such as Walmart Academy in the U.S.  We also provide access to educational opportunities for our eligible associates through our Live Better U program, which provides a pathway to earn a high school diploma at no cost or a college degree for $1 a day, as well as multiple digital learning opportunities.
Digital
-
Accelerate digital transformation and ways of working to improve the associate experience and drive business results
.  To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in digital tools to improve associate productivity, engagement, and performance.  As more customers shop digitally, we have adapted by adding more roles in eCommerce fulfillment and our home office associates have accelerated tech-based solutions that enhance the customer and associate experiences.
12
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
49
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January  2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.
2016
52
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.  From January 2017 to May 2017, Ms. Brand was an Associate Professor of Law at George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School.  From August 2012 to February 2017, she served as a board member on the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board of the U.S. government.
2018
47
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
51
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.
2019
46
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC. From May 2014 until February 2018, he was Corporate Vice President at Microsoft Corporation.
2019
56
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.
2018
54
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective November 15, 2019.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain. Ms. McLay originally joined the Company in April 2015 as Vice President of U.S. Finance and Strategy.
2019
47
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
54
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020.  From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
53
13
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives, may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience for our customers and is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
.  Failure to successfully execute this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain eCommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those related to sustainability) and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our reputation and relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell or services we offer, our market share and the growth of our business.
14
We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, consolidation or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, or reduction in operation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business.  These arrangements may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our recently divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
15
Operational Risks
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial position and results of operations is in many respects unpredictable, and we may be unable to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future.
The continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic are highly unpredictable and volatile, with varying impacts on certain business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things.
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in widespread and continuing impacts on the global economy and on our domestic and international associates, members, suppliers and other people and entities with which we do business. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which COVID-19 will continue to spread and the extent and duration of measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business and government shutdowns and other restrictions on retailers.
Customer demand for certain products has also fluctuated as the pandemic has progressed and customer behaviors have changed, which has challenged our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These factors have resulted in higher out-of-stock positions in certain products, as well as delays in delivering those products, and could impact inventory levels in the future.
Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are additional outbreaks or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases, future mutations or related strains of the virus in areas in which we operate; further increased operational costs associated with operating during a global pandemic; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time, capital and other resources to the pandemic response; the availability of, and prevalence of access to, effective medical treatments and vaccines for COVID-19; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides; and the long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including consumer behaviors.  These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased revenue growth relative to historic trends, and has particularly accelerated our eCommerce growth. These results, as well as those of other metrics such as net income and other financial and operating data, may not be indicative of results for future periods. Once the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, particularly as vaccines become more widely available, and customers return to work or school or are otherwise no longer subject to the aforementioned containment directives and similar mandates, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities may result in declining revenue and future operating results may fall below expectations.
To the extent that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the U.S. and the global economy, it may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation, and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, global health epidemics or pandemics and catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; geopolitical events; global health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; and catastrophic events, such as war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), in countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise) and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and the disruption in our communications with our stores.
16
Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) are expected to be widespread and unpredictable. These changes over time could affect, for example, the availability and cost of certain consumer products, commodities and energy (including utilities), which in turn may impact our ability to procure those certain goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located (such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries and entities, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.  We are also subject to reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and such products also expose us to product liability or food safety claims.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.  In addition, third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  Whether laws related to such sales apply to us is currently unsettled and any unfavorable changes could expose us to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position.  In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are controversial, counterfeit or otherwise fail to comply with applicable law.  Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such agreements. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth strategy.
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from cyberattackers and sophisticated organizations including nation states), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not
17
fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.  If our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media, online advertising, and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including payment information and related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. Such attacks, if successful, in addition to potential data misuse and/or loss, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity, and our ability to efficiently operate our business.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we receive and store in our information systems personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyberattackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of hackers with a wide range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. The increased use of remote work infrastructure due to the COVID-19 pandemic has also increased the possible attack surfaces. Some of our systems and third-party service providers' systems have experienced limited security breaches or incidents and although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
18
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent vulnerabilities or defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.
Any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial position and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs. To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance  programs, information technology, and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk.  Disruptions in our systems caused by security breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, financial services firms, and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
In addition, such security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security compromise or ransomware event could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security breaches or other compromises from known malware or ransomware or other threats that may be developed in the future.  In certain circumstances,  our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
Additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders and check cashing and we sell prepaid cards and gift cards. We further offer co-branded credit cards and installment loans through financial services partners. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including global anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations as well as international, federal and state consumer financial laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation.
The Company also has compliance obligations associated with new privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include statutory liability for security breaches. Consequently, cybersecurity attacks that cause a data breach could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
19
Changes in the results of our health and wellness business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, as well as the recent addition of  Walmart Health Centers in a number of states. A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options with or without home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any additional
changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including management transitions within the Company's senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success.
If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
20
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of Walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2021, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 22% of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as India), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), antitrust and competition law regulatory matters (such as the competition investigations currently underway in Mexico related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart de Mexico, in Canada related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart Canada and competition proceedings in India related to our Flipkart subsidiary),
local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
21
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the laws and regulations of other countries.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2021, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 78% of our consolidated net sales. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, any of which can impact our current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law could have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations and additional guidance from the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies is still pending. As further guidance is issued by these taxing authorities, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act, including collecting information not regularly produced by the Company or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, in response to significant market volatility and disruptions to business operations resulting from the global spread of COVID-19, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect and more permanent changes. The impact of these potential new rules as well as any other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations could have a material effect on our effective tax rate.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
22
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws and regulations specific to the environments in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.
Our operations in the U.S. are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements and reimbursement arrangements affecting our health and wellness operations.  The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Affordable Care Act, laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the "DEA"), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; patient inducement regulations; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and health care services.
For example, in the U.S., the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the U.S.  In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available, such as our money transfer agent services, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, sanctions, fraud and other illicit activity as well as consumer financial protection.  We are also subject to data privacy and protection laws regulating the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information, such as the California Consumer Protection Act (“CCPA”), which was recently significantly modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), as well as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). The potential effects of these laws are far-reaching and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. In the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the GDPR (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover in the prior year. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach. The CCPA and CPRA give California residents expanded rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA and CPRA provide for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches.  Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We may be subjected to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including changing some portions of our business.  Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation.
23
While we strive to adhere our practices and procedures to these laws, they are subject to evolving regulations, interpretations and regulator discretion.  To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; loss of licenses; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment.  We are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, environmental and other governmental authorities.  We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain businesses we have divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years.  For example, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class or collective-action allegations, or both, in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
The Company has also been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids and is also a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804)
, currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Similar cases that name the Company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement.  On October 22, 2020, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, asking a federal court to clarify the roles and responsibilities of pharmacists and pharmacies as to the dispensing and distribution of opioids under the Controlled Substances Act (the “CSA”).  The Company’s action was dismissed and the Company is appealing the decision. On December 22, 2020, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that the Company unlawfully dispensed controlled substances from its pharmacies and unlawfully distributed controlled substances to those pharmacies in violation of the CSA. The  DOJ is seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021. In addition, the Company is the subject of two securities class actions alleging violations of the federal securities laws regarding the Company’s disclosures with respect to opioids filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 20, 2021 and March 5, 2021 purportedly on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016 through December 22, 2020. A derivative action was also filed by one of the Company's shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on February 9, 2021 alleging breach of fiduciary duties against certain of its current and former directors with respect to oversight of the Company’s distribution and dispensing of opioids.
The Company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims and the related opioid matters.
We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
...
Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
24
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. The exclusive forum provision may increase the costs for a shareholder to bring a claim or limit a shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. While the exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with, and the exclusive forum provision will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent  jurisdiction for actions brought under, the federal securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of January 31, 2021, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
35
24
215
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
12
25
191
Indiana
97
6
11
...
34
14
138
Maine
19
3
—
...
1
8
71
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
80,239
783,271
26
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of January 31, 2021
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Other
(2)
...
—
358
15,932
China
403
31
—
434
69,312
India
—
29
—
...
—
328
19,570
Mexico
2,470
164
—
...
18
632
37,660
International total
5,762
321
18
6,101
337,273
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2020, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2021.
(2)
Other includes stand-alone gas stations.
(3)
Square feet reported in thousands.
(4)
Africa unit counts primarily reside in South Africa, with other locations in Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
(5)
Central America unit counts reside in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
(6)
As of January 31, 2021, the Company's operations in Japan and the United Kingdom were classified as held for sale.  Refer to
Note 12
.
27
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31, 2021:
Owned
Leased
(1)
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,067
676
4,743
Sam's Club retail units
513
86
599
Total U.S. retail units
4,580
762
5,342
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
108
48
156
Sam's Club distribution facilities
11
16
27
Total U.S. distribution facilities
119
64
183
...
4,699
826
5,525
International properties
Africa
37
386
...
188
170
358
China
2
432
434
India
2
27
29
...
54
274
328
Mexico
700
1,934
2,634
...
433
199
632
Total International retail units
1,898
4,203
6,101
International distribution facilities
32
189
221
Total International properties
1,930
4,392
6,322
...
6,629
5,218
11,847
Total retail units
6,478
4,965
11,443
Total distribution facilities
151
253
404
...
5,218
11,847
(1)
Also includes U.S. and international distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
(2)
As of January 31, 2021, the Company's operations in Japan and the United Kingdom were classified as held for sale.  Refer to
No
t
e 12
,
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses.
For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
28
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is included in "
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data
."  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.
We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Asda Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
National Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL").  The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes over 2,000 cases as of March 5, 2021, some of which cases are in the process of being transferred to the MDL. A trial previously scheduled to begin on May 10, 2021 against a number of parties, including the Company, regarding opioid dispensing and distribution claims has been postponed and rescheduled for October 4, 2021.  A separate trial in the MDL that had been expected to start in November 2020 against a number of parties, including the Company, regarding opioid distribution claims has been postponed indefinitely. There is one case in which the Company is named as a defendant that was remanded from the MDL court to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. In addition, there are over 200 state court cases pending as of March 5, 2021, some of which may be removed to federal court to seek MDL transfer.  The case citations for the state cases are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
DOJ Opioid Litigation:
On October 22, 2020, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action in the Eastern District of Texas against the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, asking a federal court to clarify the roles and responsibilities of pharmacists and pharmacies as to the dispensing and distribution of opioids under the Controlled Substances Act (the “CSA”)
.
The Company’s action,
Walmart Inc. v. U.S. Department of Justice et al.,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of Texas, 10/22/20, was dismissed and the Company is appealing the decision. A civil complaint pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware has been filed by the DOJ against the Company, in which the DOJ alleges violations of the CSA related to nationwide distribution and dispensing of opioids.
U.S. v. Walmart Inc., et al
., USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021.
Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation
: A derivative complaint and class action lawsuits drawing heavily on the allegations of the DOJ
complaint have been filed in Delaware naming various current and former directors and certain officers as defendants. The plaintiff in the derivative suit (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) alleges, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with their oversight of opioids dispensing and distribution. The securities class actions, alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended regarding the Company’s disclosures with respect to opioids were purportedly filed on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016 through December 22, 2020
.
Derivative Lawsuit:
Abt v. Alvarez et al.
...
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 1/20/21;
Martin v. Walmart Inc. et al
., USDC, Dist. of DE, 3/5/21.
II. CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS:
The Company has received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania seeking documents regarding the Company’s consumer fraud program and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company’s money transfer services, where Walmart is an agent. The most recent subpoena was issued in August 2020.  The Company has been responding to these subpoenas and is cooperating with the government’s investigation. The Company has also responded to civil investigative demands from the United States Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and is cooperating with the FTC’s investigation related to money transfers and the Company’s anti-fraud program in its capacity as an agent. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigations or any related actions by the governmental entities regarding these matters at this time. While the Company does not currently believe that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed an applied threshold not to exceed $1 million.  Applying this threshold, there are no environmental matters to disclose for this period.
29
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 17, 2021, there were 214,673 holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2021 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2016 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2016
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2021
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2016
...
148.23
180.37
211.48
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
120.09
174.49
...
219.46
316.05
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, we repurchase shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2021 were made under the $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in October 2017, of which authorization for $
3.0
billion of share repurchases remained as of January 31, 2021.  On February 18, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning February 22, 2021, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
31
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2021, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
10,088,388
(1)  Represents the approximate dollar value of shares that could have been repurchased at the end of the month.
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
This Item is reserved as a result of the Company’s early adoption of Item 301 of Regulation S-K, as deleted pursuant to SEC Release No. 33-10890; 34-90459 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis; Selected Financial Data, and Supplementary Financial Information) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2020.
32
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020") and January 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs.  Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.  Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period’s currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period’s currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.  Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
Our business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as weather patterns.  Generally, our highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31; however, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
We have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, including the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Acquisition of 81 percent of the outstanding shares, or 77 percent of the diluted shares, of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart") in August 2018.  Refer to
Note 12
for additional information on the transaction.
•
Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil in August 2018, for which we recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.8 billion in fiscal 2019.  Refer to
Note 12
for additional information on the transaction.
•
Divestiture of banking operations in Walmart Chile and Walmart Canada in December 2018 and April 2019, respectively.
•
In October 2020, we agreed to sell Asda for net consideration of $9.4 billion and recognized an estimated non-cash loss in fiscal 2021 of $5.7 billion, after tax, which includes the loss associated with the expected derecognition of the Asda pension plan.  In February 2021, we completed the sale of Asda.  Refer to
Note 11
and
Note 12
.
•
In November 2020, we completed the sale of Walmart Argentina and recorded a non-cash loss of $1.0 billion, after-tax, primarily due to cumulative foreign currency translation losses.  Refer to
Note 12
.
33
•
In November 2020, we agreed to sell a majority stake in Seiyu for net consideration of approximately $1.2 billion and recognized an estimated non-cash loss of $1.9 billion, after-tax, in fiscal 2021.  In March 2021, we completed the sale of Seiyu.  Refer to
Note 12
.
We operate in the highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce businesses. Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence.  We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates.  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather, global health epidemics including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, cost of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, deflation, inflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
COVID-19 Updates
Throughout fiscal 2021, we have operated with a clear set of priorities to guide our decision making through the COVID-19 pandemic.  These priorities are:
•
Supporting our associates on the front lines in terms of their physical safety, financial health and emotional well-being. We are providing extra pay and benefits, including special cash bonuses to associates and the introduction of a COVID-19 Emergency Leave Policy in the U.S.
•
Serving our customers as safely as possible and keeping our supply chain operating.  We reduced our store operating hours at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and have expanded store hours slightly toward the end of the year.
•
Helping others which includes waiving or discounting rent for in-store tenants in April and May 2020 as well as hiring more than 500,000 new associates.
•
Managing the business well both operationally and financially and driving our long-term strategy.
We are maintaining our everyday low-price discipline while investing in our omni-channel offering which continues to resonate with customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
While we incurred incremental costs of $4.0 billion during fiscal 2021 associated with operating during a global health crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in overall net sales growth during fiscal 2021 with strong comparable sales in the U.S. and the majority of our international markets.  Sales trends were positively affected by eCommerce growth acceleration and we also saw customers consolidate shopping trips and purchase larger baskets.  For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Operations
" below.
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to the duration and intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic; the duration and extent of economic stimulus; timing and effectiveness of global vaccines; and volatility in employment trends and consumer confidence which may impact our results.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial framework as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
34
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expanding omni-channel initiatives while slowing the rate of growth of new stores and clubs.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar.
Calendar comparable sales, including the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2021 and 2020, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2021
2020
2021
2020
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
8.7%
2.9%
(0.2)%
0.0%
Sam's Club
8.7%
1.6%
(3.4)%
...
2.7%
(0.6)%
0.1%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 8.7% and 2.7% in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 8.7% and 2.9% in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  For fiscal 2021, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket primarily resulting from increased demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by a decline in transactions as customers consolidated shopping trips.  For fiscal 2020, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket and transactions.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 5.4% and 2.1% to comparable sales for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Sam's Club comparable sales increased 8.7% and 1.6% in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  For fiscal 2021, Sam's Club comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by both our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations and by lower fuel sales.  Sam's Club comparable sales for fiscal 2020 benefited from growth in transactions and higher fuel sales, which were partially offset by lower average ticket due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.2% and 1.8% to comparable sales for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Consistent Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2021
2020
Net sales
$
555,233
$
...
%
1.5
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.9
%
20.9
%
For fiscal 2021, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was flat when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from strong growth in comparable sales and lapping the $0.9 billion business restructuring charges from the prior year described below.  These benefits were offset by $4.0 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.4 billion business restructuring charge in the Walmart U.S. segment recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
For fiscal 2020, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 8 basis points compared to the previous fiscal year due to our focus on expense management combined with our growth in comparable store sales.  These improvements were partially offset by $0.9 billion in business restructuring charges consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology, and other business restructuring charges due to strategic decisions that resulted in the write down of certain assets in the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments.
35
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes improving our customer-facing initiatives in stores and clubs and creating a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.  As such, we are allocating more capital to eCommerce, technology, supply chain, and store remodels and less to new store and club openings.  Total fiscal 2021 capital expenditures decreased slightly compared to the prior year.  The following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2021
2020
eCommerce, technology, supply chain and other
$
5,681
$
...
7,828
$
7,904
Walmart International
2,436
2,801
Total capital expenditures
$
10,264
$
10,705
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was 5.6% and 6.7% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in ROA was primarily due to the losses on certain international operations held for sale or sold, partially offset by the fair value change in our equity investments as well as the increase in operating income.  ROI was 14.0% and 13.4% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The increase in ROI was primarily due to the increase in operating income.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period. For fiscal 2020, lease related assets and associated accumulated amortization are included in the denominator at their carrying amount as of that balance sheet date, rather than averaged, because they are not directly comparable to the prior year calculation which included rent for the trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of 8.  A two-point average was used for leased assets beginning in fiscal 2021, after one full year from the date of adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (
Topic 842)
("ASU 2016-02")
.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI. As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.  Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
36
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
2020
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
13,706
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
22,548
$
...
+ Rent
2,626
2,670
ROI operating income
$
36,447
$
...
2021
2020
2019
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
252,496
...
236,495
$
219,295
Leased assets, net
NP
21,841
7,078
Total assets without leased assets, net
NP
214,654
212,217
...
94,187
94,514
87,175
Accumulated amortization on leased assets
NP
4,694
5,682
Accumulated depreciation and amortization, without leased assets
NP
89,820
81,493
...
22,159
(1)  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the corresponding prior period and dividing by 2.  Average total assets as used in ROA includes the average impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02
.
(2)  For fiscal 2020, as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, average total assets is based on the average of total assets without leased assets, net plus leased assets, net as of January 31, 2020. Average accumulated depreciation and amortization is based on the average of accumulated depreciation and amortization, without leased assets plus accumulated amortization on leased assets as of January 31, 2020.
NP = Not provided.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.  Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company’s financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See "
Liquidity and Capital Resources
" for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of $36.1 billion, $25.3 billion and $27.8 billion for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of $25.8 billion, $14.6 billion and $17.4 billion for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2021 increased when compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the impact of the global health crisis which accelerated inventory sell-through, as well as the timing and payment of inventory purchases, incremental COVID-19 related expenses and certain benefit payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2021 increased when compared to fiscal 2020 due to the same reasons as the increase in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.4 billion in decreased capital expenditures.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2020 declined when compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the contribution to the Asda pension plan in anticipation of its
37
future settlement, the inclusion of a full year of Flipkart operations, and the timing of vendor payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2020 declined when compared to fiscal 2019 due to the same reasons as the decline in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.4 billion in increased capital expenditures.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2021
...
25,255
$
27,753
Payments for property and equipment
(10,264)
(10,705)
(10,344)
Free cash flow
$
25,810
$
...
(16,117)
(14,299)
(2,537)
(1)  "Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2021
2020
2019
Total revenues
$
559,151
$
...
%
2.8
%
Net sales
$
555,233
$
...
%
2.9
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
8.7
%
2.7
%
4.0
%
Gross profit rate
24.3
%
24.1
%
24.5
%
Operating income
$
22,548
$
20,568
$
21,957
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.1
%
4.0
%
4.3
%
Consolidated net income
$
13,706
$
15,201
$
7,179
Unit counts at period end
(1)
11,443
11,501
11,361
Retail square feet at period end
(1)
1,121
1,129
1,129
(1)  Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end, and includes stores associated with operations classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021. Permanently closed locations are not included.
Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased $35.2 billion or 6.7% and $9.6 billion or 1.9% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  These increases in revenues were due to increases in net sales, which increased $35.3 billion or 6.8% and $9.6 billion or 1.9% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments as well as positive comparable sales in the majority of our international markets resulting from increased demand stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall net sales growth was strong despite certain operating limitations in several international markets in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 due to government regulations and precautionary measures taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The net sales increase was partially offset by negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $5.0 billion.  For fiscal 2020, net sales were positively impacted by overall positive comparable sales for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, along with the addition of net sales from Flipkart, which we acquired in August 2018, and positive comparable sales in the majority of our international markets.  These increases were partially offset by $4.1 billion of negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates in fiscal 2020 and our sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil in August 2018.
Our gross profit rate increased 20 basis points and decreased 40 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to strategic sourcing initiatives, strong sales in higher margin categories, and fewer markdowns. This was partially offset in the Walmart U.S. segment by carryover of prior year price investment as well as the temporary closure of our Auto Care Centers and Vision Centers in response to the
38
COVID-19 pandemic.  For fiscal 2020, the decrease was primarily due to price investment in the Walmart U.S. segment and the addition of Flipkart in the Walmart International segment, partially offset by favorable merchandise mix including strength in private brands and less pressure from transportation costs in the Walmart U.S. segment.
For fiscal 2021, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was flat when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from strong growth in comparable sales and lapping the $0.9 billion business restructuring charges from the prior year described below.  These benefits were offset by $4.0 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic and a $0.4 billion business restructuring charge in the Walmart U.S. segment recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
For fiscal 2020, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 8 basis points, when compared to the previous fiscal year, due to our focus on expense management combined with our growth in comparable store sales.  These improvements were partially offset by $0.9 billion in business restructuring charges consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology, and other business restructuring charges due to strategic decisions that resulted in the write down of certain assets in the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments.
Other gains and losses consisted of net gains of $0.2 billion and $2.0 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The gain in fiscal 2021 primarily reflects $8.7 billion in net gains associated with the fair value changes of our equity investments, partially offset by the $8.3 billion pre-tax loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for sale or sold in fiscal 2021.  The gain in fiscal 2020 was primarily the result of a $1.9 billion increase in the market value of our investment in JD.com.
Our effective income tax rate was 33.3% for fiscal 2021, 24.4% for fiscal 2020, and 37.4% for fiscal 2019.  The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 is primarily due to the loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for or sold in fiscal 2021, which provided minimal realizable tax benefit.  The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the fiscal 2019 loss on sale of a majority stake in Walmart Brazil, which increased the previous comparative fiscal year's effective tax rate, as it provided minimal realizable tax benefit.  Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that, beginning in fiscal 2019, are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 is presented in
Note 9
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $13.7 billion and $15.2 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, which represents a decrease of $1.5 billion and an increase of $8.0 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $4.75, $5.19 and $2.26 for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2021
2020
2019
Net sales
$
369,963
$
...
%
4.1
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
8.7
%
2.9
%
3.7
%
Operating income
$
19,116
$
17,380
$
17,386
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.2
%
5.1
%
5.2
%
Unit counts at period end
4,743
4,756
4,769
Retail square feet at period end
703
703
705
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $29.0 billion or 8.5% and $9.3 billion or 2.8% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 8.7% and 2.9% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2021 were driven by growth in average ticket primarily resulting from meeting the increased demand due to economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic while transactions decreased as customers consolidated shopping trips.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2020 were driven by both average ticket and transaction growth for fiscal 2020.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 5.4% and 2.1% to comparable sales for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Gross profit rate was flat and decreased 14 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  While fiscal 2021 gross profit rate was flat, it benefited from strategic sourcing initiatives and fewer markdowns, offset by a change in merchandise mix, the carryover effect of prior year price investment and the temporary closure of our Auto Care and Vision Centers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  For fiscal 2020,  the decrease was primarily the result of continued price investments which were partially offset by better merchandise mix, including strength in private brands, and less pressure from transportation costs.
39
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 15 and 4 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  We leveraged operating expenses in fiscal 2021 primarily as a result of strong sales, which were partially offset by $3.2 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic including special bonuses, expanded sick and emergency leave pay, costs associated with outfitting our stores and associates with masks, gloves and sanitizer, and expanded cleaning practices.  Fiscal 2021 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was also slightly aided by lapping the $0.5 billion business restructuring charges from the prior year described below, offset by a $0.4 billion business restructuring charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 resulting from changes to Walmart U.S. support teams to better support its omni-channel strategy.  The decrease in fiscal 2020 was primarily due to strong sales and productivity improvements which were mostly offset by business restructuring charges of $0.5 billion consisting primarily of non-cash impairment charges for certain trade names, acquired developed technology and other business restructuring charges due to decisions that resulted in the write down of certain eCommerce assets.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $1.7 billion and decreased $6 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2021
2020
2019
Net sales
$
121,360
$
...
%
2.3
%
Operating income
$
3,660
$
3,370
$
4,883
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.0
%
2.8
%
4.0
%
Unit counts at period end
6,101
6,146
5,993
Retail square feet at period end
337
345
344
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased $1.2 billion or 1.0% and decreased $0.7 billion or 0.6% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales growth in the majority of our markets driven by changes in consumer behavior in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $5.0 billion.  The pandemic led to significant economic pressures and channel and mix shifts due to changes in consumer behavior, including accelerated growth in eCommerce in several markets. While several of our markets experienced extensive store and operational closures in the second quarter as a result of government mandates, most closed stores and warehouses had resumed operations by the third quarter.
For fiscal 2020, the decrease was primarily due to negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $4.1 billion as well as a reduction in sales due to our sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil in August 2018, offset by a full year of net sales from Flipkart and positive comparable sales growth in the majority of our markets.
Gross profit rate increased 50 basis points and decreased 136 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to Flipkart's improved margin mix and reduced fuel sales in the U.K.  For fiscal 2020, the decrease was primarily due to Flipkart, as well as a change in merchandise mix.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 14 basis points and decreased 13 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2021 was primarily due to $0.5 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and lapping the impairment charges in the prior year discussed below.  Fiscal 2020 decreased primarily due to positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets as well as cost discipline across multiple markets, partially offset by $0.4 billion in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of the carrying value of one of Flipkart's two fashion trade names, Jabong.com, as a result of a strategic decision to focus our efforts on a single fashion platform in order to simplify the business and customer proposition.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.3 billion and decreased $1.5 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
40
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2021
2020
2019
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
63,910
$
...
%
(2.3)
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
8.7
%
1.6
%
5.4
%
Operating income
$
1,906
$
1,642
$
1,520
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.0
%
2.8
%
2.6
%
Unit counts at period end
599
599
599
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
59,184
$
...
%
(3.9)
%
Operating income
$
1,645
$
1,486
$
1,383
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.8
%
2.8
%
2.6
%
(1)  We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.  Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment.
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased $5.1 billion or 8.7% and $1.0 billion or 1.6% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Our 8.7% growth in comparable sales for fiscal 2021 benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by both our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations and by lower fuel sales.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.2% to comparable sales. For fiscal 2020, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales, including fuel, of 1.6%. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and higher fuel sales, which were partially offset by lower ticket due to our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.8% to comparable sales.
Gross profit rate increased 65 basis points and decreased 11 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase in gross profit rate was due to favorable sales mix, including lower fuel and tobacco sales, and improvement in inventory losses which was partially offset by price investment and higher eCommerce fulfillment costs.  For fiscal
2020
, gross profit rate decreased due to price investment and higher eCommerce fulfillment costs, partially offset by reduced tobacco sales.
Membership and other income increased 6.8% and 4.7% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2021 and 2020, the increases were primarily due to growth in total members, which benefited from higher overall renewal rates, and higher Plus Member penetration.  Fiscal 2021 growth was also positively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Fiscal 2020 was also benefited by gains on property sales and other income.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 42 and decreased 19 basis points for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Despite increased net sales from the strong demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, fiscal 2021 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to $0.3 billion of incremental costs related to the pandemic, which included additional costs such as special bonuses, expanded cleaning practices and security, expanded sick and emergency leave pay, and outfitting our associates with masks and gloves.  Additionally, the increase in operating expense as a percentage of segment net sales was affected by reduced tobacco and fuel sales.  For fiscal 2020, the decrease was primarily the result of lower labor-related costs and a charge of approximately $50 million related to lease exit costs in the prior comparable period. These benefits were partially offset by a reduction in sales of tobacco and a higher level of technology investment.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.3 billion and $0.1 billion for fiscal
2021 and
2020, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
41
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be adequate to fund operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
25,255
$
27,753
Net cash provided by operating activities was $36.1 billion, $25.3 billion and $27.8 billion for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2021 increased when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to the impact of the global health crisis which accelerated inventory sell-through, as well as the timing and payment of inventory purchases, incremental COVID-19 related expenses and certain benefit payments.  The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2020, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to the contribution to our Asda pension plan in anticipation of its future settlement, the inclusion of a full year of Flipkart operations, and the timing of vendor payments.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $17.7 billion and $9.5 billion as of January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We maintained more cash at January 31, 2021 compared to January 31, 2020 in order to provide us with enhanced financial flexibility due to the uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $2.6 billion and $16.0 billion as of January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The decrease in working capital deficit as compared to the previous fiscal year is primarily driven by the increase in cash and cash equivalents as well as the increase in current assets and current liabilities due to the classification of the Company's operations in the U.K. and Japan as held for sale.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. While we are awaiting anticipated technical guidance from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and the U.S. Treasury Department, we do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations or potential taxes on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2021 and 2020, cash and cash equivalents of $2.8 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions.  Of the $2.8 billion as of January 31, 2021, approximately $1.0 billion can only be accessed through dividends or intercompany financing arrangements subject to approval of the Flipkart minority shareholders; however, this cash is expected to be utilized to fund the operations of Flipkart.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(9,128)
$
(24,036)
Net cash used in investing activities was $10.1 billion, $9.1 billion and $24.0 billion for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and generally consisted of payments for business acquisitions and to expand our eCommerce capabilities, invest in other technologies and supply chain, remodel existing stores and clubs and add new stores and clubs.  Net cash used in investing activities increased $0.9 billion for fiscal 2021 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily as a result of lapping the net proceeds received from the sale of our banking operations in Walmart Canada and the change in other investing activities, partially offset by decreased capital expenditures.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased $14.9 billion for fiscal 2020 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily as a result of the $13.8 billion payment for the acquisition of Flipkart, net of cash acquired, as well as payments for other, smaller acquisitions in fiscal 2019.
42
Additionally, refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2021 and 2020.
Growth Activities
For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $14 billion, with a focus on supply chain, automation, customer-facing initiatives and technology.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(14,299)
$
(2,537)
Net cash used in financing activities generally consists of transactions related to our short-term and long-term debt, financing obligations, dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.  Transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders are also classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Fiscal 2021 net cash used in financing activities increased $1.8 billion when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The increase is primarily due to the timing of issuances and repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by both a reduction in cash used to pay down short-term borrowings as well as share repurchases as we manage our financial position during the current economic environment.  Fiscal 2020 net cash used in financing activities increased $11.8 billion for fiscal 2020 when compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year.  The increase was primarily due to the $15.9 billion of net proceeds received in fiscal 2019 from the issuance of long-term debt to fund a portion of the purchase price for Flipkart partially offset by $5.5 billion of additional long-term debt in the fiscal 2020 to fund general business operations.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2021
...
13,315
$
13,389
Average daily short-term borrowings
1,577
7,120
10,625
...
%
2.4
%
We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2021 that provide additional liquidity, if needed.  Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2021:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2020
$
...
43,714
$
49,076
Repayments of long-term debt
(5,382)
—
(5,382)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
3,126
(3,126)
—
...
41,194
$
44,309
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were $6.1 billion, $6.0 billion and $6.1 billion for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The Board of Directors approved, effective February 18, 2021, the fiscal 2022 annual dividend of $2.20 per share, an increase over  the fiscal 2021 annual dividend of $2.16 per share.  For fiscal 2022, the annual dividend will be paid in
four
quarterly installments of $0.55 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date
...
December 10, 2021
January 3, 2022
43
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2021 were made under the $20 billion share repurchase program approved in October 2017, of which authorization for $3.0 billion of share repurchases remained as of January 31, 2021.  On February 18, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning February 22, 2021, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.  The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2021
2020
2019
...
19.4
53.9
79.5
Average price paid per share
$
135.20
$
105.98
$
93.18
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
2,625
$
5,717
$
7,410
Capital Resources
We believe cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs, which include funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  As of January 31, 2021, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
44
Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth certain information concerning our obligations to make contractual future payments, such as debt and lease agreements, and certain contingent commitments as of January 31, 2021:
Payments Due During Fiscal Years Ending January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
Total
...
2025-2026
Thereafter
Recorded contractual obligations:
Long-term debt
(1)
$
44,309
...
5,840
$
27,619
Short-term borrowings
224
224
—
—
—
Operating lease obligations
(2)
20,949
2,189
3,878
3,224
11,658
Finance lease obligations and other
(2)(3)
8,835
896
...
899
5,584
Unrecorded contractual obligations:
Estimated interest on long-term debt
21,124
1,636
3,072
...
15,379
$
64,789
(1)    Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
(2)    Represents our contractual obligations to make future payments under non-cancelable operating leases and finance lease agreements, both of which are recorded on the balance sheet at their present value.  Refer to
Note 7
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding operating and finance leases.
(3)    Finance lease obligations and other includes contractual obligations under other financing obligations of $1.3 billion.
(4)    Includes obligations related to our operations in Japan and the United Kingdom which are classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021.
Under the terms of the sale of the majority stake of Walmart Brazil, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for certain pre-closing tax and legal contingencies and other matters for up to R$2.3 billion, adjusted for interest based on the Brazilian interbank deposit rate.  As of January 31, 2021, the indemnification liability was $0.6 billion and recorded in deferred income taxes and other in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2021, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate debt.  Additionally, we have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2021.
Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  For the purposes of the above table, contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the table above.  Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are not included in the table above as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.
The expected timing for payment discussed above is estimated based on current information.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $1.7 billion of net unrecognized tax benefits are considered uncertain tax positions and have been recorded as liabilities.  The timing of the payment, if any, associated with these liabilities is uncertain.  Refer to
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of unrecognized tax benefits.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of January 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
45
Other Matters
We discuss our "Asda Equal Value Claims" which includes certain existing employment claims against our recently divested United Kingdom subsidiary, Asda Group Limited, including certain risks arising therefrom, under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also discuss the Opioids Litigation including certain risks arising therefrom, in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks" and under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings" in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  We also discuss various legal proceedings related to the Asda Equal Value Claims and Opioids Litigation in "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" herein under the caption "Supplemental Information."  The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingencies of the Company that may or may not result in the Company incurring a material liability upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies, how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Inventories
We value inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for Walmart U.S. segment's inventories.  The inventory at the Sam's Club segment is valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.  When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.  Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices.  As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% increase to our retail price indices would not have resulted in a decrease to the carrying value of inventory.  As of January 31, 2021 and 2020, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at first-in, first-out ("FIFO").
Impairment of Assets
We evaluate long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Management's judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and financial performance.  The evaluation of long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level.  The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in demographics.  Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period.  These factors could cause management to conclude that indicators of impairment exist and require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the related long-lived assets.  Impairment charges on assets held and used were immaterial in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019.  As a measure of sensitivity, fiscal 2021 impairment would not change materially with a 10% decrease in the undiscounted cash flows for the stores or clubs with indicators of impairment.
In fiscal 2021, the Company's operations in Argentina, Japan and the United Kingdom met the held for sale criteria.  As a result, the individual disposal groups were measured at fair value, less costs to sell, which resulted in impairment charges that were included in the total estimated pre-tax loss of $8.3 billion recorded in fiscal 2021.  Refer to
Note 12
.  Fiscal 2019 included a pre-tax loss of $4.8 billion related to the sale of the majority stake in Walmart Brazil, which included full impairment of all related assets.
Business Combinations, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, are recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition.  The determination of fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available. For intangible assets acquired in a business combination, we typically use the income method. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives. The excess of the purchase price over fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
46
Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition.  Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics.  As of January 31, 2021, our reporting units consisted of Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired.  Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary.  If we determine, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed.  The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions.  These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based approach.  Historically, our reporting units have generated sufficient returns to recover the cost of goodwill, as the fair value significantly exceeded the carrying value.  Our indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have also historically generated sufficient returns to recover their cost.  Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.  Due to certain strategic restructuring decisions, we recorded approximately $0.7 billion in impairment in fiscal 2020 related to acquired trade names and acquired developed software.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either not probable or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made.  Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Income Taxes
Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result.
Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  This determination requires the use of judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years.  Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies on estimates.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law.  Effective beginning January 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments.  As discussed in
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act in fiscal 2019.  As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard–setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance.
47
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of certain equity investments.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal 2021, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $69 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2021.
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal 2022
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
224
...
%
1.9
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
%
2.9
%
(1)    Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2021, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 9% of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on January 31, 2021 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $42 million.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the U.S, as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt.  For fiscal 2021, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $0.2 billion net gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $83 million and $241 million as of January 31, 2021 and January 31, 2020, respectively.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the strengthening of certain currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2021.  The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $524 million.  A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2021 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $46 million.
48
In addition to currency swaps, we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by designating foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations.  We had outstanding long-term debt of £1.7 billion as of January 31, 2021 and January 31, 2020 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the U.K.  As of January 31, 2021, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $210 million.  In addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of ¥100 billion as of January 31, 2021 and ¥180 billion as of January 31, 2020 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in Japan.  As of January 31, 2021, a hypothetical 10% change in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $87 million.  As of January 31, 2021, the Company's operations in the U.K. and Japan are classified as held for sale, and subsequently closed in February 2021 and March 2021, respectively. Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to changes in the stock price of our equity investments with readily determinable fair values.  The change in fair value is recorded within other gains and losses and resulted in a gain of $8.7 billion in fiscal 2021 due to net increases in the stock price of those equity investments.  As of January 31, 2021, the fair value of our equity investments with readily determinable fair values was $14.4 billion.  As of January 31, 2021, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $1.4 billion.
49
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2021
Table of Contents
...
55
Consolidated Balance Sheets
56
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
57
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
58
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
59
50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements").  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 19, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2021, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and has made accruals with respect to these matters, where appropriate. For some matters, a liability is not probable, or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated and therefore an accrual has not been made. Where a liability is reasonably possible and may be material, such matters have been disclosed.  Management assessed the probability of occurrence and the estimation of any potential loss based on the ability to predict the number of claims that may be filed or whether any loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. For example, in assessing the probability of occurrence in a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment to determine if it can predict the number of claims that may be filed and whether it can reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from that proceeding. In connection with the sale of Asda, the Company is no longer liable for the Asda Equal Value Claims; however, the Company has agreed to provide indemnification for any potential Asda liability related to these claims up to a contractually determined amount.
51
Auditing management’s accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies and the estimated fair value of related indemnifications was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of occurrence for contingencies or related indemnifications or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies and related indemnities. For example, we tested controls over the Company’s assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company’s determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company’s assessment of the probability of occurrence or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors, reviewed opinions provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and external counsel, and evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal legal counsel. We also evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures. To test the estimated fair value of indemnities, we involved a valuation specialist to evaluate the valuation methodologies and significant assumptions including, among others, the discount rate.
Valuation of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Description of the Matter
At January 31, 2021, the Company has $4.9 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets which primarily consist of acquired tradenames.  As disclosed in Notes 1, 8 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, these assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually using valuation techniques to estimate fair value. These fair value estimates are sensitive to certain significant assumptions including revenue growth rates, discount rates, and royalty rates.
Auditing management’s annual indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests was complex and highly judgmental due to the significant measurement uncertainty in determining the fair values of the indefinite-lived intangibles. For example, the fair value estimates are sensitive to significant assumptions identified above that are affected by future market or economic conditions.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment review process. Our procedures included, among others, testing controls over management’s review of the significant assumptions described above used to estimate the fair values of the indefinite-lived intangible assets.
To test the estimated fair values of the indefinite-lived intangible assets, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing methodologies used to determine the fair value, testing the significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company. For example, we evaluated management’s forecasted revenue growth rates used in the fair value estimates by comparing those assumptions to the historical results of the Company and current industry, market and economic forecasts. We involved a valuation specialist to assist in evaluating the valuation methodologies and the significant assumptions such as discount rates and royalty rates. Additionally, we performed sensitivity analyses of significant assumptions to evaluate the effect on the fair value estimates of the indefinite-lived intangible assets.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
Rogers, Arkansas
March 19, 2021
52
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2021, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. as of January 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2021, and the related notes and our report dated March 19, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2021
2020
2019
Revenues:
Net sales
$
555,233
$
519,926
$
510,329
Membership and other income
3,918
4,038
4,076
Total revenues
559,151
523,964
514,405
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
420,315
394,605
385,301
...
116,288
108,791
107,147
Operating income
22,548
20,568
21,957
Interest:
Debt
1,976
2,262
1,975
Finance, capital lease and financing obligations
339
337
371
...
2,194
2,410
2,129
Other (gains) and losses
(
210
)
...
1,958
)
8,368
Income before income taxes
20,564
20,116
11,460
Provision for income taxes
6,858
4,915
4,281
Consolidated net income
13,706
15,201
7,179
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
196
)
...
(
509
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
13,510
$
14,881
$
6,670
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
4.77
$
5.22
$
2.28
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
4.75
5.19
2.26
...
2,831
2,850
2,929
Diluted
2,847
2,868
2,945
Dividends declared per common share
$
2.16
$
...
2021
2020
2019
Consolidated net income
$
13,706
$
15,201
$
7,179
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
196
)
...
(
509
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
13,510
14,881
6,670
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
842
286
...
)
122
272
Cash flow hedges
235
(
399
...
1,244
)
131
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
826
(
1,235
...
1,263
)
75
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
14,532
13,966
7,066
...
Inventories
44,949
44,435
Prepaid expenses and other
20,861
1,622
Total current assets
90,067
61,806
Property and equipment, net
92,201
105,208
Operating lease right-of-use assets
13,642
17,424
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
4,005
4,417
Goodwill
28,983
31,073
Other long-term assets
...
236,495
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
224
$
...
Accrued liabilities
37,966
22,296
Accrued income taxes
242
280
Long-term debt due within one year
3,115
5,362
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,466
1,793
Finance lease obligations due within one year
491
511
Total current liabilities
92,645
77,790
Long-term debt
41,194
43,714
Long-term operating lease obligations
12,909
16,171
Long-term finance lease obligations
3,847
4,307
Deferred income taxes and other
14,370
12,961
Commitments and contingencies
...
Capital in excess of par value
3,646
3,247
Retained earnings
88,763
83,943
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
12,805
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
80,925
74,669
Noncontrolling interest
...
See accompanying notes.
56
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Total
Shares
...
2,953
$
80,822
Adoption of new accounting standards, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
1
)
924
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
6,670
509
7,179
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
113
)
Cash dividends declared ($
2.08
per share)
—
...
(
7,487
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
72,496
7,138
79,634
Adoption of new accounting standards on February 1, 2019, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
300
)
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
14,881
320
15,201
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
1,235
)
Cash dividends declared ($
2.12
per share)
—
...
(
5,639
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
74,669
6,883
81,552
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,510
196
13,706
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
213
)
826
Cash dividends declared ($
2.16
per share)
—
...
(
2,658
)
Cash dividends declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
57
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2021
2020
2019
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
13,706
$
15,201
$
7,179
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
11,152
10,987
10,678
Net unrealized and realized (gains) and losses
(
8,589
)
...
1,036
)
—
Deferred income taxes
1,911
320
(
...
1,521
1,981
1,734
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
(
1,086
...
4,623
186
183
Accrued income taxes
(
136
)
...
36,074
25,255
27,753
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
10,264
)
...
(
10,344
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
215
321
519
Proceeds from the disposal of certain operations
56
833
876
...
(
24,036
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
(
324
)
...
(
53
)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
5,492
15,872
Repayments of long-term debt
(
5,382
)
...
(
3,784
)
Dividends paid
(
6,116
)
...
(
7,410
)
Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(
434
)
...
9,515
$
7,756
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid
$
5,271
$
3,616
$
3,982
Interest paid
2,216
2,464
2,348
...
Note 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart" or the "Company") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, the Company is striving to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for its customers.
The Company's operations comprise
three
reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020") and January 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019").  Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  The Company consolidates variable interest entities where it has been determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of those entities' operations.  Investments for which the Company exercises significant influence but does not have control are accounted for under the equity method.  These variable interest entities and equity method investments are immaterial to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for the United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  The Company consolidates all other operations generally using a one-month lag and based on a calendar year.  There were no significant intervening events during the month of January 2021 related to the operations consolidated using a lag that materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Use of Estimates
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions, including potential impacts arising from the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.  Management's estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers investments with a maturity when purchased of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  All credit card, debit card and electronic transfer transactions that process in less than seven days are classified as cash and cash equivalents.
The amounts due from banks for these transactions classified as cash and cash equivalents totaled $
...
40
% and
80
% were held outside of the U.S., respectively.  Cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company's non-U.S. operations.
The Company uses intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.
As of January 31, 2021 and 2020, cash and cash equivalents of approximately $
2.8
billion and $
...
2.8
billion as of January 31, 2021, approximately $
1.0
billion can only be accessed through dividends or intercompany financing arrangements subject to approval of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart") minority shareholders; however, this cash is expected to be utilized to fund the operations of Flipkart.
Receivables
Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts, and are primarily due from the following: customers, which also includes insurance companies resulting from pharmacy sales, banks for customer credit, debit cards and electronic transfer transactions that take in excess of seven days to process; suppliers for marketing or incentive programs; governments for income taxes; and real estate transactions.  As of January 31, 2021 and January 31, 2020, receivables from transactions with customers, net were $
2.7
billion and $
2.9
billion, respectively.
59
Inventories
The Company values inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for the Walmart U.S. segment's inventories. The inventory for the Walmart International segment is valued primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. The retail inventory method of accounting results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market, since permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory. The inventory at the Sam's Club segment is valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method. As of January 31, 2021 and January 31, 2020, the Company's inventories valued at LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.
Held for Sale
Components and businesses that meet accounting requirements to be classified as held for sale are presented as single asset and liability amounts in the Company's financial statements with a valuation allowance, if necessary, to recognize the net carrying amount at the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell.  The Company reviews its businesses and assets held for sale each reporting period to determine whether the existing carrying amounts are fully recoverable in comparison to estimated fair values.  As of January 31, 2021, $
19.2
billion assets held for sale and $
12.7
billion liabilities held for sale were classified in prepaid expenses and other and accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively, reflecting the Company's operations in the U.K. and Japan classified as held for sale.  Refer to
Note 12
for additional details.  As of January 31, 2020, assets and liabilities held for sale were immaterial.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are initially recorded at cost.  Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred.  Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances, and includes the estimated useful lives that are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
As of January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
Estimated Useful Lives
...
N/A
4,741
3,751
Property and equipment
180,571
195,028
Accumulated depreciation
...
(
[Total relevant lines: 4616]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2021 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2022-03-18.html)
================================================================================
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
...
srt:CumulativeEffectPeriodOfAdoptionAdjustmentMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
wmt:segment
0000104169
wmt:AmountsDuefromBanksMember
2022-01-31
...
wmt:NonrepatriableCashAndCashEquivalentsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:NonrepatriableCashAndCashEquivalentsFlipkartMember
wmt:FlipkartMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:PrepaidExpensesAndOtherCurrentAssetsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccruedLiabilitiesMember
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
us-gaap:IndemnificationGuaranteeMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:LongTermDebtMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarMember
...
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithVariableRateMember
...
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithVariableRateMember
...
wmt:DenominatedYenMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1050DebtDue2026Member
2021-09-17
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1050DebtDue2026Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1500DebtDue2028Member
2021-09-22
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1500DebtDue2028Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1800DebtDue2031Member
2021-09-22
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A1800DebtDue2031Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A2500DebtDue2041Member
2021-09-22
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A2500DebtDue2041Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2051Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2021-09-22
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2051Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4250DebtDue2021Member
2021-04-15
0000104169
wmt:A4250DebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2021Member
2021-06-23
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3125DebtDue2021Member
2021-06-23
0000104169
wmt:A3125DebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6750DebtDue2023Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6750DebtDue2023Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2850DebtDue2024Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2850DebtDue2024Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2024Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2024Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3550DebtDue2025Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3550DebtDue2025Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3050DebtDue2026Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3050DebtDue2026Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5875DebtDue2027Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5875DebtDue2027Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3700DebtDue2028Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3700DebtDue2028Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2029Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2029Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2375DebtDue2029Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2375DebtDue2029Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A7550DebtDue2030Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A7550DebtDue2030Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5250DebtDue2035Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5250DebtDue2035Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6500DebtDue2037Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6500DebtDue2037Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6200DebtDue2038Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6200DebtDue2038Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3950DebtDue2038Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3950DebtDue2038Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4875DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4875DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5000DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5000DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2041Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2041Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2043Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2043Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4750DebtDue2043Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4750DebtDue2043Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4300DebtDue2044Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4300DebtDue2044Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3625DebtDue2047Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3625DebtDue2047Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4050DebtDue2048Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4050DebtDue2048Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2950DebtDue2049Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2950DebtDue2049Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-06-23
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
2020-06-23
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A2.850DebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3630DebtDue2020Member
2020-07-08
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3630DebtDue2020Member
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1600DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-07-28
iso4217:JPY
0000104169
wmt:A1600DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-10-25
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-12-15
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2020Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:NetInvestmentHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:DisposalGroupHeldforsaleNotDiscontinuedOperationsMember
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2042Member
...
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
2022-01-31
wmt:securitiesClassAction
wmt:numberOfShareholders
0000104169
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
2021-09-27
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
country:US
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
...
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CN
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CN
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CN
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:GB
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:GB
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:GB
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:ECommerceMember
2019-02-01
2020-01-31
0000104169
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2021, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 30, 2021, was $
206,032,159,403
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 1, 2022 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
15
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
47
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
49
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
81
Item 11
Executive Compensation
81
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
81
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
81
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2022
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 1, 2022 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store openings;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, supply chain, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
our workforce strategy;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to environmental, sustainability, and governance ("ESG") priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim,"
4
"anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings.  Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Each week, we serve approximately 230 million customers who visit more than 10,500 stores and numerous eCommerce websites under 46 banners in 24 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022"), January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021") and January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020").  During fiscal 2022, we generated total revenues of $572.8 billion, which was comprised primarily of net sales of $567.8 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2022, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 23 countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  To date, we now have over 8,000 pickup and 6,000 delivery locations globally.  In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, as well as made several eCommerce acquisitions to better serve our customers.  These investments have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings.  We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives internationally, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra as well as PhonePe, a digital transaction platform.
We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, service offerings, eCommerce websites and marketplaces as well as our supply chain combined with approximately 2.3 million associates as of January 31, 2022 to better serve our customers.  Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination.  In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members.  As we execute on our strategy, our flywheel is accelerating through offerings such as our Walmart Connect advertising business, Walmart Fulfillment Services, our health and wellness business, including Walmart Health, and our financial services business.  These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our flywheel centered around our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
6
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.  We also previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures.  Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below.  Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of $393.2 billion for fiscal 2022, representing 69% of our fiscal 2022 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $370.0 billion and $341.0 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options.  As of January 31, 2022, we had approximately 4,600 pickup locations and more than 3,500 same-day delivery locations.  Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits that currently include unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel and pharmacy discounts, and mobile scan & go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience.  We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com.  We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2022:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
221,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli & bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed & bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and other clinical services.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Bonobos Fielder," "Eloquii Elements," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Better Homes & Gardens," "Pioneer Woman" and "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara."
7
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
The Walmart U.S. business also includes an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, and access to quality, affordable healthcare via Walmart Health.  In Fiscal 2022, Walmart U.S. initiatives also included the launch of a B2B last mile delivery service platform via Walmart GoLocal, and Walmart Luminate which provides a suite of data products to merchants and suppliers.
Additional service offerings include fuel, financial services and related products (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs as well as our previously announced fintech joint venture), such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment, and certain types of installment lending.  Combined, these offerings do not currently represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations.
Walmart U.S. is available to customers through supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day.  Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, eCommerce retailers, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition.  They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.  We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These strategies include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and
•
Expanding our flywheel and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 157 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  For fiscal 2022, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 31 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship or deliver directly from more than 3,500 stores.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 23 countries outside of the U.S. as of January 31, 2022.  Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, and China, and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Walmart International previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of
8
Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recent divestitures.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites.  Walmart International had net sales of $101.0 billion for fiscal 2022, representing 18% of our fiscal 2022 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $121.4 billion and $120.1 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its format mix.
Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates.  We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Divestiture of Walmart Argentina in November 2020.
•
Divestiture of Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021.
•
Divestiture of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets, our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as PhonePe in India.  Same-day delivery capacity continues to expand in Mexico, including our recent launch of a membership model which provides unlimited same-day delivery from stores, and in China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia provide customers one-hour delivery by leveraging Walmart stores as fulfillment centers.  A value-based internet and telephone service was recently launched in Mexico allowing customers to enjoy digital connectivity.
Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet.  As of January 31, 2022, Walmart International had approximately 2,900 pickup and over 1,900 delivery locations.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Extra Special," "Lider," "Myntra," and "PhonePe."  In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Walmart International also offers advertising, financial services and related products in various markets. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India provides a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising.  Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help its various formats operate more efficiently, as well as to provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
Walmart International competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses.  Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.  Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories
9
in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition.  They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 179 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and South Africa.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal 2022, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 83 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, more than 3,400 eCommerce sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities in India, as well as our physical retail stores.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.  Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of $73.6 billion for fiscal 2022, representing 13% of our consolidated fiscal 2022 net sales, and had net sales of $63.9 billion and $58.8 billion for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$100
$45
Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.  Beginning in fiscal 2023, Sam's Club launched a single loyalty rewards currency called Sam's Cash which merges and replaces existing Cash Rewards for Plus members and Cash Back for Sam's Club Mastercard holders.  Members may redeem Sam's Cash on purchases in the club and online, to pay for membership fees or for cash in clubs.  Sam's Cash does not expire and is available for monthly redemption.
Omni-channel.
Sam's Club  provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan & Go, ship-from-club, and delivery-from-club.  Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel, tobacco and other categories;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses, and tire and battery centers;
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances, and third-party gift cards; and
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
In addition, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand its assortment and deliver member value.
Operations.
Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Additionally, most club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 8:00 a.m.  Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience.  Curbside Pickup is available at all clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members.
Sam's Club also offers "Scan & Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
10
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete.
Distribution.
We utilize 28 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., as well as some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  During fiscal 2022, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from these facilities, while the remainder of our purchases were shipped directly to Sam's Club locations by suppliers.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 12 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.  The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  We offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions.  For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks."
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Priorities
Our ESG strategy is centered on the concept of creating shared value: we believe we maximize long-term value and create competitive advantage for the Company by serving our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, business partners, and communities. We believe that addressing such societal needs builds the value of our business, including by enhancing customer and associate trust, creating new revenue streams, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future advantage, and strengthening the underlying systems we all rely on.
We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create shared value: issues that rank high in relevance to our business and stakeholders and which Walmart is positioned to make a positive impact. Our current ESG priorities are categorized into four broad themes: opportunity, sustainability, community, and ethics and integrity.
11
•
Opportunity
.  Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive economic opportunity. We aim to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion, and to provide opportunity for Walmart associates (as further described in the Human Capital Management section below), our supply chain and the communities we're in to fulfill our customer mission, strengthen our business and help people build a better life for themselves and their families.
•
Sustainability
. Walmart's sustainability efforts focus on our ability to create and preserve long-term value for both people and planet. With respect to people, our sustainability efforts focus on sourcing responsibly, helping prevent forced labor, empowering women, creating inclusive economic opportunity and selling safer, healthier products. With respect to the planet, our efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains by reducing emissions, protecting and restoring nature, and reducing waste. To help address the effects of climate change, Walmart has set science-based targets for emissions reduction, including our goal to achieve zero emissions in our operations by 2040—without offsets—and to reduce or avoid one billion metric tons of emissions in our value chain by 2030 under our Project Gigaton™ initiative.
•
Community
. Walmart aims to serve and strengthen communities
by operating our business in a way that meets the needs of our customer and community stakeholder groups, including by providing safer, healthier and more affordable food and other products, disaster support, associate volunteerism, local grant programs and community cohesion initiatives.
•
Ethics and Integrity
.
At every level of our Company, we work to create a culture that inspires trust among our associates, with our customers, and in the communities we serve
.
We periodically publish information on our ESG priorities, strategies, and progress on our corporate website and may update those disclosures from time to time. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Human Capital Management
Our commitment to help people around the world save money and live better is delivered by our associates who make the difference for our customers every day.  As of the end of fiscal 2022, we employed approximately 2.3 million associates worldwide, with approximately 1.7 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.6 million associates internationally.  In the U.S., approximately 94% of these associates are hourly and approximately 69% are full-time.
We believe the strength of our workforce, our associates, is a significant contributor to our success.  Walmart is a place of opportunity, not only as a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers, but also a place where people can grow in their careers across our global omni-channel business.  As customer expectations and technology change the nature of work, we are focused on attracting, developing, rewarding, and retaining associates to thrive in an ever-changing environment. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions.  Our focus on providing a path of career opportunity for our associates through robust training, competitive wages and benefits, and opportunities for advancement creates a strong associate value proposition.  The COVID-19 pandemic and the related reassessment taking place across the workforce had an impact on our retention of associates and as a result turnover in the U.S. increased compared to the previous fiscal year.
Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities:
Inclusion
-
Build a Walmart for everyone: a diverse, equitable and inclusive company, where associates' ideas and opinions matter
.  We are focused on creating an inclusive culture and a diverse associate base. Creating an environment where all associates believe they belong and are empowered to be themselves, which we believe is essential in serving our customers now and in the future.  We publish our diversity representation twice yearly, and hold ourselves accountable to providing recurring culture, diversity, equity, and inclusion updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and members of the Board of Directors.  Of the approximately 2.3 million associates employed worldwide, 53% identify as women.  In the U.S., 49% of the approximately 1.7 million associates identify as people of color.
We review our processes regarding our commitment to fair-pay practices.  We are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance, and the work they do.
To build a company where associates feel engaged, valued and heard, we gather and respond to associates' feedback in a variety of ways, including but not limited to an anonymous, periodic associate engagement survey, our Open Door process, and one-on-one interactions.  Management reviews the results of feedback obtained from our formal associate engagement survey.  Feedback and suggestions received through these channels have led to meaningful changes in our business.
Well-being
-
Focus on the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates.
We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages, as well as a broad range of benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements, and we believe these investments in our associates are important to our future.  In the U.S., we offer affordable healthcare coverage to our full-time and eligible part-time associates as well as company paid benefits such as 401(k) match,
12
maternity leave, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance, behavioral health services, and a store discount card or Sam's Club membership.  Additional information about how we invest in our associates' well-being, including wage structure and pay, can be found in our Human Capital brief in our most recent ESG reporting, which is available on our corporate website.  Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The health and safety of our associates remain our biggest priorities and we continue to focus on enabling access to vaccines, providing safeguards within facilities, and supporting associates.  We encourage all associates to consider the COVID-19 vaccine and provide access to make the decision easier.  Associates can become vaccinated while on the clock or receive paid time off to do so.  Our COVID-leave policy, which was implemented in March 2020 to support associates during the pandemic, has been extended through March 31, 2022.
Growth
-
Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills.
We are invested in the growth of our associates in support of our business and their success.  We invest in associate development – including new roles and career paths, cross-training, on-the-job learning and coaching, and formal, classroom-style training such as Walmart Academy in the U.S.  We also provide access to educational opportunities for our eligible associates through our Live Better U program, which provides a pathway to earn a high school diploma or a college degree at no cost, as well as multiple digital learning opportunities.
Digital
-
Accelerate digital transformation and ways of working to improve the associate experience and drive business results
.  To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in digital tools to improve associate productivity, engagement, and performance.  As more customers shop digitally, we have adapted by adding more roles in eCommerce fulfillment and our home office associates have accelerated tech-based solutions that enhance the customer and associate experiences.
13
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
50
M. Brett Biggs
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January  2016.  From January 2014 to December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walmart International.
2016
53
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.  From January 2017 to May 2017, Ms. Brand was an Associate Professor of Law at George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law School.  From August 2012 to February 2017, she served as a board member on the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board of the U.S. government.
2018
48
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
52
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.  From October 2015 to January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer of Sam's Club.
2019
47
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC. From May 2014 until February 2018, he was Corporate Vice President at Microsoft Corporation.
2019
57
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.
2018
55
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective November 15, 2019.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain. Ms. McLay originally joined the Company in April 2015 as Vice President of U.S. Finance and Strategy.
2019
48
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
55
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020.  From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
54
14
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, talent, supply chain automation, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives, may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and interconnected ecosystem for our customers that deepens our relationships with our customers across our various businesses and partnerships and reinforces our overall flywheel strategy. The success of this strategy is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
.  With the interconnected components of this flywheel strategy and an increasing allocation of capital expenditures focused on these initiatives, our failure to successfully execute on individual components of this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain investments in eCommerce, technology, talent, automation, including any operating losses incurred, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and services and the competitive environment.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those related to ESG issues) and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns
15
could negatively affect our reputation and relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell or services we offer, our market share and the growth of our business.
We face strong competition from other retailers, wholesale club operators, omni-channel retailers, and other businesses which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services.  The omni-channel retail landscape is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and the entry of new, well-funded competitors may increase competitive pressures. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail and other markets in which we operate, omni-channel innovations and omni-channel ecosystems developed by our competitors or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, consolidation or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, competitive omni-channel ecosystems, or reductions in operations may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could allow these companies to provide a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business.  These arrangements may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could
16
have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our recently divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial position and results of operations continues to be unpredictable, and we may be unable to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future.
The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to be highly unpredictable and volatile in light of the potential for a resurgence of infection rates or as a result of future mutations, variants, or related strains of the virus.  Recent years have demonstrated the widespread and varying impacts of the pandemic on certain business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, the extent and duration of measures to try to contain the virus (such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, business and government shutdowns, and other restrictions on retailers), our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things.
Customer behaviors have changed rapidly during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the event of a resurgence of infections or future mutations, variants or related strains of the virus become prevalent, customer demand for certain products may fluctuate and customer behaviors may change, which may challenge our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These factors may result in higher out-of-stock positions in certain products, as well as delays in delivering those products, and could impact inventory levels in the future.
Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are additional outbreaks or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases, future mutations or related strains of the virus in areas in which we and our suppliers operate; further increased operational costs associated with operating during a global pandemic; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time, capital and other resources to the pandemic response; the effectiveness and extent of administration of vaccinations and medical treatments for COVID-19 or other variants; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides; and the long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including consumer behaviors.  These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased revenue growth relative to historic trends, and has particularly accelerated our eCommerce growth. These results, as well as those of other metrics such as net income and other financial and operating data, may not be indicative of results for future periods. Once the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, particularly as vaccines become more widely available, and customers return to work or school or are otherwise no longer subject to the aforementioned containment directives and similar mandates, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities may result in declining revenue and future operating results may fall below expectations.
To the extent that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the U.S. and the global economy, it may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation, and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, global health epidemics or pandemics and catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; geopolitical events; global health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; and catastrophic events, such as war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), in countries in which we operate, in which our suppliers are located, or in other areas of the world (such as in Ukraine where armed hostilities currently exist between Ukraine and Russia) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise) and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, increases in the costs of procuring products as a result of either reduced availability
17
or economic sanctions, increased transportation costs (whether due to fuel prices, fuel supply, or otherwise), the disruption (whether directly or indirectly) of critical infrastructure systems, banking systems, utility services or energy availability to our stores, clubs and our facilities, and the disruption in our communications with our stores, clubs and our other facilities.
Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions, drought, or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) are expected to be widespread and unpredictable.  Certain impacts of physical risk may include: temperature changes that increase the heating and cooling costs at stores, clubs, and distribution or fulfillment centers; extreme weather patterns that affect the production or sourcing of certain commodities; flooding and extreme storms that damage or destroy our buildings and inventory; and heat and extreme weather events that cause long-term disruption or threats to the habitability of the communities in which Walmart operates. Relative to transition risk, certain impacts may include: changes in energy and commodity prices driven by climate-related weather events; prolonged climate-related events affecting macroeconomic conditions with related effects on consumer spending and confidence; stakeholder perception of our engagement in climate-related policies; and new regulatory requirements resulting in higher compliance risk and operational costs.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located (such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, the U.S. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries and entities, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.  We are also subject to reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and such products also expose us to product liability or food safety claims.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.  In addition, third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  Whether laws related to these marketplace transactions apply to us is currently unsettled and any unfavorable changes could expose us to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position.  In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are controversial, counterfeit, pirated, or stolen, or otherwise fail to comply with applicable law or the proprietary rights of others.  Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such agreements. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth and flywheel strategy.
18
We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security incidents and breaches (through cyberattacks, which may be from cybercriminals or sophisticated state-sponsored threat actors), catastrophic events such as fires, major or extended winter storms, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, usage errors by our associates or contractors, civil or political unrest, or armed hostilities.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.  If our systems are damaged, breached, attacked, or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we frequently update our information technology hardware, software, processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media, online advertising, and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including payment information and related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. Such attacks, if successful, in addition to potential data misuse and/or loss, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity, and our ability to efficiently operate our business.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Any failure to maintain the privacy or security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cyberattacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we receive and store in our information systems personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with the digital platforms that we use to conduct and facilitate our various businesses.
In addition, we and our third-party service providers store and maintain health-related personal information, pharmacy, and medical records in connection with our health and wellness and pharmacy business.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or
19
vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated and frequent.  Attacks against information systems and devices, whether our own or those of our third-party service providers, create risk of cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware, malware, phishing incidents. We expect to continue to experience such attempted attacks in the future.  Cyberattacks and threat actors can be sponsored by particular countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of hackers with a wide range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyberattacks, computer viruses, phishing incidents, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. Mitigation and remediation recommendations continue to evolve, and addressing vulnerabilities is a priority for us.  The increased use of remote work infrastructure due to the COVID-19 pandemic has also increased the possible attack surfaces. Some of our systems and third-party service providers' systems have experienced security incidents or breaches and although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a compromise or breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent vulnerabilities or defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.
Any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions (including, with respect to health information, liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or "HIPAA"), customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial position and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security event, breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs. To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance programs, information technology, and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk.  Disruptions in our systems caused by security incidents, breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with (such as strategic partners, suppliers, banks, or utility companies) – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, financial services firms, and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
In addition, such security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security compromise or ransomware event could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security incidents, breaches, or other compromises from known malware or ransomware or other threats that may be developed in the future.  In certain circumstances,  our contracts with
20
payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
Additionally, through various financial service partners, we offer money transfers, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders, check cashing, prepaid access, co-branded credits cards, installment lending, and earned wage access. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including global anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations as well as international, federal and state consumer financial laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation.
The Company also has compliance obligations associated with privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include liability for security and privacy breaches.  Among other obligations, breaches may trigger obligations under federal and state laws to notify affected individuals, government agencies and the media.  Consequently, cybersecurity attacks that cause a data breach could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
Changes in the results of our health and wellness business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, as well as the recent addition of  Walmart Health locations in a number of states which offer medical, dental, optometry, immunizations, and other health services. A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs").
These operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options with or without home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any additional
changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while
21
controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including management transitions within the Company's senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success.
If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income, capital expenditures, comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our effective tax rates, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of Walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2022, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as India), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), antitrust and competition law regulatory matters (such as the competition investigations currently
22
underway in Mexico related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart de Mexico, in Canada related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart Canada and competition proceedings in India related to our Flipkart subsidiary),
local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the laws and regulations of other countries.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2022, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 82% of our consolidated net sales. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, any of which can impact our current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law could have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act and any other new tax rules, regulations, guidance, and interpretations, including collecting information not regularly produced by the Company or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect and more permanent changes. The impact of these potential new rules as well as any other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations could have a material effect on our effective tax rate.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial
23
Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws, regulations, and interpretations of such laws and regulations specific to the businesses and jurisdictions in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.
Our operations in the U.S. are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements and reimbursement arrangements affecting our health and wellness operations.  The laws and regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the Affordable Care Act; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the "DEA"); trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer (including through our digital channels and stores and clubs as well as our previously announced fintech joint venture); anti-kickback laws; anti-money laundering laws; consumer financial protection laws; the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations; false claims laws; patient inducement regulations; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse, quality and standards of medical equipment, and the qualifications and practice of the professions of medical, pharmacy, optical care and health care services.
For example, in the U.S., the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, distribution, maintenance and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  In addition, other health-related legislation at the federal and state level may have an adverse effect on our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. Also, upon the successful completion of the previously announced pending acquisitions by our fintech joint venture, there may be an increased degree of scrutiny by financial regulatory authorities over the newly acquired fintech related businesses, which may result in higher operational costs and an increased possibility for fines and penalties if there is non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the U.S.  Increasing governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting diligence, and disclosure topics such as climate change, sustainability (including with respect to our supply chain), natural resources, waste reduction, energy, human capital, and risk oversight could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess, and report.
In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, fraud and other illicit activity as well as consumer financial protections laws and U.S. sanctions.  We are also subject to data privacy and protection laws regulating the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), which was significantly modified by the California Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), new comprehensive privacy legislation passed in 2021 in Virginia and Colorado, as well as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and China's Personal Information Protection Act. The potential effects of these laws are far-reaching and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. In the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the GDPR (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover in the prior year. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach.  Residents in jurisdictions with comprehensive privacy laws have expanded rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA and CPRA provide for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches.  Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer
24
Protection Act. We may be subjected to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including changing some portions of our business.  Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. If we fail to respond adequately to changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our business, operations, and financial performance may be adversely affected.
While we strive to adhere our practices and procedures to these laws, they are subject to evolving regulations, interpretations, enforcement priorities of regulatory authorities, and regulator discretion.  The regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face, which may continue, amplifies these risks.
We may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; loss of licenses; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or criminal and civil penalties.  Failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment.  We are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, environmental and other governmental authorities.  We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain businesses we have divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years.  For example, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class or collective-action allegations, or both, in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
The Company has also been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids and is also a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids, including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804)
currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Similar cases that name the Company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement.  On October 22, 2020, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, asking a federal court to clarify the roles and responsibilities of pharmacists and pharmacies as to the dispensing and distribution of opioids under the Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA").  The Company's action was dismissed.  The Company appealed this decision to the Fifth Circuit. On December 22, 2021, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the action.  On December 22, 2020, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that the Company unlawfully dispensed controlled substances from its pharmacies and unlawfully distributed controlled substances to those pharmacies in violation of the CSA. The  DOJ is seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021. Since that time, the District Court stayed further proceedings in the DOJ complaint pending the decision of the United States Supreme Court in two other cases interpreting the CSA, which have been consolidated into
Ruan v. United States
, 142 S. Ct. 457 (2021).
In addition, the Company is the subject of a consolidated securities class action alleging violations of the federal securities laws regarding the Company's disclosures with respect to opioids filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 20, 2021 purportedly on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016 through December 22, 2020. On May 11, 2021 the U.S. District Court in Delaware consolidated the class actions and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel.  The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated securities class action on October 8, 2021; the lead plaintiff responded to the motion on January 10, 2022; and the defendants filed their reply brief on February 10, 2022.
25
Two derivative actions were also filed by certain of the Company's shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on February 9, 2021 and April 16, 2021 alleging breach of fiduciary duties against certain of the Company's current and former directors with respect to oversight of the Company's distribution and dispensing of opioids, and those suits have been stayed pending further developments in other Opioids litigation matters.
Other shareholders filed a third derivative action making similar allegations in the Delaware Court of Chancery on September 27, 2021.  The defendants in this derivative suit filed the opening brief on their motion to dismiss that case on December 21, 2021; and the plaintiffs responded by filing an amended complaint on February 22, 2022.
The Company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims and the related opioid matters.
We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
...
in the "
Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. The exclusive forum provision may increase the costs for a shareholder to bring a claim or limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. While the exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with, and the exclusive forum provision will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under, the federal securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Our reputation may be adversely affected if we are not able to achieve our ESG goals.
We strive to deliver shared value through our business and our diverse stakeholders expect us to make significant progress in certain ESG priority issue areas.  From time to time, we announce certain aspirations and goals relevant to our priority ESG issues.  We periodically publish information about our ESG priorities, strategies, and progress on our corporate website and update our ESG reporting from time to time.  Achievement of these aspirations and goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and it is possible that we may fail, or be perceived to have failed, in the achievement of our ESG goals or certain of our customers, associates, shareholders, investors, suppliers, business partners, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations might not be satisfied with our efforts.  Certain challenges we face in the achievement of our ESG objectives are also captured within our ESG reporting, which is not incorporated by reference into and does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A failure or perceived failure to meet our goals could adversely affect public perception of our business, associate morale or customer or shareholder support.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of January 31, 2022, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
35
24
215
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
11
25
190
Indiana
97
6
11
...
34
14
138
Maine
19
3
—
...
1
8
71
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
80,351
783,347
27
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of January 31, 2022
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Total
Square feet
...
11
384
17,152
China
361
36
397
64,530
India
—
29
29
1,570
Mexico
2,589
166
2,755
104,267
International total
4,919
332
5,251
277,125
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2021, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2022.
(2)
Square feet reported in thousands.
(3)
Africa unit counts primarily reside in South Africa, with other locations in Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
(4)
Central America unit counts reside in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31, 2022
(1)
:
Owned
Leased
(2)
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,065
677
4,742
Sam's Club retail units
513
87
600
Total U.S. retail units
4,578
764
5,342
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
110
47
157
Sam's Club distribution facilities
11
17
28
Total U.S. distribution facilities
121
64
185
...
4,699
828
5,527
International properties
Africa
36
378
...
205
179
384
China
2
395
397
India
2
27
29
Mexico
704
2,051
2,755
Total International retail units
1,440
3,811
5,251
International distribution facilities
22
157
179
Total International properties
1,462
3,968
5,430
...
6,161
4,796
10,957
Total retail units
6,018
4,575
10,593
Total distribution facilities
143
221
364
...
4,796
10,957
(1)
Walmart International properties, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2021, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2022.
(2)
Also includes U.S. and international distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
28
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses. For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
29
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," which is captioned "Contingencies," under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings."  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL").  The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes over 2,150 cases as of March 4, 2022.  The liability phase of a trial in one of the MDL cases began on October 4, 2021 against a number of parties, including the Company, regarding opioid dispensing claims.  On November 23, 2021, the jury found in favor of the plaintiffs as to the liability of all defendants, including the Company.  The abatement phase of the trial, which will determine amounts owed by the defendants, is currently scheduled to begin on May 10, 2022.  The Company intends to appeal the jury verdict from the liability phase upon completion of the abatement phase of the trial.  There is one case in which the Company is named as a defendant that was remanded from the MDL court to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma (
The Cherokee Nation v. CVS Pharmacy, Inc., et al.
, Case No. CIV-18-56-RAW-SPS (E.D. Okla.)).  This case was brought by the Cherokee Nation.  Certain motions have been filed by the parties to this case, and the case is currently stayed pending a ruling on those motions.  In addition, there are over 225 state court cases pending as of March 4, 2022, some of which may be removed to federal court to seek MDL transfer.  The case citations for the state cases are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation:
On October 22, 2020, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, asking a federal court to clarify the roles and responsibilities of pharmacists and pharmacies as to the dispensing and distribution of opioids under the Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA")
.
The Company's action,
Walmart Inc. v. U.S. Department of Justice et al.,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of Texas, 10/22/20, was dismissed.  The Company had appealed this decision to the Fifth Circuit.  On December 22, 2021, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the action. A civil complaint pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware has been filed by the DOJ against the Company, in which the DOJ alleges violations of the CSA related to nationwide distribution and dispensing of opioids.
U.S. v. Walmart Inc., et al
., USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20.  The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021.  The DOJ filed its opposition brief on April 23, 2021 and the Company filed its reply brief on May 24, 2021.  On November 19, 2021, the District Court stayed further proceedings in the DOJ complaint pending the decision of the United States Supreme Court in two other cases interpreting the CSA, which have been consolidated into
Ruan v. United States
, 142 S. Ct. 457 (2021).
Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation
: Three derivative complaints and two securities class actions drawing heavily on the allegations of the DOJ complaint have been filed in Delaware naming the Company and various current and former directors and certain current and former officers as defendants. The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of opioids dispensing and distribution and that the defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and are liable for contribution under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act in connection with the Company's disclosures about opioids.  Two of the derivative suits have been filed in the U.S. District Court in Delaware and those suits have been stayed pending further developments in other Opioids litigation matters.  The other derivative suit has been filed in the Chancery Court in Delaware.  The securities class actions, alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act regarding the Company's disclosures with respect to opioids, were purportedly filed on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016 through December 22, 2020.  On May 11, 2021, the U.S. District Court in Delaware consolidated the class actions and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel.  The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated securities class action on October 8, 2021; the lead plaintiff responded to the motion on January 10, 2022; and the defendants filed their reply brief on February 10, 2022.  The defendants in the derivative suit pending in Delaware Chancery Court filed the opening brief on their motion to dismiss that case on December 21, 2021; and the plaintiffs responded by filing an amended complaint on February 22, 2022.
Derivative Lawsuits:
Abt v. Alvarez et al.
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 2/9/21;
...
In re Walmart Inc. Securities Litigation
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 5/11/21.
30
II. CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS:
Asda Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others - Manchester Employment Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Brierley & Ors (A2/2016/0973 - United Kingdom Court of Appeal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0059/16/DM - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal); ASDA Stores Ltd v Ms S Brierley & Others (UKEAT/0009/16/JOJ - United Kingdom Employment Appeal Tribunal).
Money Transfer Agent Services Proceedings:
The Company has received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania seeking documents regarding the Company's consumer fraud program and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer services, where Walmart is an agent. The most recent subpoena was issued in August 2020.  The Company has been responding to these subpoenas and is cooperating with the government's investigation. The Company has also responded to civil investigative demands from the United States Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") in connection with the FTC's investigation related to money transfers and the Company's anti-fraud program in its capacity as an agent.   While the Company had been engaged in discussions with the FTC regarding a potential resolution of this matter, the parties have not been able to reach a resolution.  In November 2021, the FTC Bureau of Consumer Protection forwarded a draft civil complaint to the FTC seeking authority to file a complaint against the Company seeking various forms of monetary and injunctive relief.  The FTC is currently considering whether to grant such authorization.  The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigations or any related actions by the governmental entities regarding these matters at this time. While the Company does not currently believe that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
Foreign Direct Investment Matters:
In July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart Private Limited and one of its subsidiaries ("Flipkart"), and to unrelated companies and individuals, including certain current and former shareholders and directors of Flipkart.  The notice requests the recipients to show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations (the "Rules") should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations during the period from 2009 to 2015, prior to the Company's acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018.  The notice is an initial stage of proceedings under the Rules which could, depending upon the conclusions at the end of the initial stage, lead to a hearing to consider the merits of the allegations described in the notice.  If a hearing is initiated and if it is determined that violations of the Rules occurred, the regulatory authority has the authority to impose monetary and/or non-monetary relief.  Flipkart has begun the process of responding to the notice and, if the matter progresses to a consideration of the merits of the allegations described in the notice is initiated, Flipkart intends to defend against the allegations vigorously. Due to the fact that this process is in an early stage, the Company is unable to predict whether the notice will lead to a hearing on the merits or, if it does, the final outcome of the resulting proceedings. While the Company does not currently believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the notice, the amount of the proceeds the Company may receive in indemnification from individuals and entities that sold shares to the Company under the 2018 agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired its majority stake in Flipkart, or whether the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed an applied threshold not to exceed $1 million.
In June 2021, the Company signed a tolling agreement with the Office of the Attorney General of the State of California to toll the statute of limitations for potential claims regarding Walmart's management of waste consumer products at its California facilities that are alleged to be hazardous.  In December 2021, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of California filed suit against the Company, bringing enforcement claims regarding Walmart's management of waste consumer products at its California facilities that are alleged to be hazardous.  The Company believes the suit is without merit and is vigorously defending this litigation matter.  While the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, the potential for penalties or settlement costs could exceed $1 million. Although the Company does not believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 16, 2022, there were 209,870 holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2022 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2017 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2017
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2022
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2017
...
150.26
176.18
217.21
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
148.34
159.89
...
278.09
296.49
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made prior to February 22, 2021 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2022.  On February 18, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases, and beginning February 22, 2021, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of January 31, 2022, authorization for $10.6 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
32
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2022, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022"), January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021") and January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs.  Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.  Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.  Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
We have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, including the following highlights over the last three years:
•
In November 2020, we completed the sale of Walmart Argentina and recorded a pre-tax non-cash loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.0 billion, primarily due to cumulative foreign currency translation losses.  Refer to
Note 12
.
•
In February 2021, we completed the sale of Asda for net consideration of $9.6 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $5.5 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction. Refer to
Note 11
and
Note 12
.
•
In March 2021, we completed the sale of Seiyu for net consideration of $1.2 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.9 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction.  Refer to
Note 12
.
We operate in the highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve.  We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce, health and wellness, financial services, advertising, and data service businesses.  Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence.  We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates.  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather and other risks related to climate change, global health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, supply chain disruptions, cost and availability of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, deflation, inflation, fuel and energy prices,
34
general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor availability and costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to the duration and intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic; the duration and extent of economic stimulus measures; effectiveness and extent of administration of vaccinations and medical treatment; supply chain disruptions; and volatility in employment trends and consumer confidence which may impact our results.  For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Ope
rations
" below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial framework as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
strategic capital allocation.
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expanding omni-channel initiatives that complement our flywheel strategy while slowing the rate of growth of new stores and clubs.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar.
Calendar comparable sales, including the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2022 and 2021, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2022
2021
2022
2021
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
6.4%
8.7%
0.3%
(0.2)%
Sam's Club
15.0%
8.7%
5.5%
...
8.7%
1.2%
(0.6)%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 7.7% and 8.7% in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 6.4% and 8.7% in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  For fiscal 2022, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which includes strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years.  In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, average ticket increased while transactions decreased as customers consolidated shopping trips and purchased larger baskets.  Transaction growth turned positive in April 2021 and continued with strong growth through the rest of the year as customers' pre-pandemic behaviors largely resumed.  For fiscal 2021, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket primarily resulting from meeting the increased demand due to economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic while transactions decreased as customers consolidated shopping trips.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% and 5.4% to comparable sales for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Sam's Club comparable sales increased 15.0% and 8.7% in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  For fiscal 2022, Sam's Club comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and was aided by consumer spending due to government stimulus, and also includes some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years.  The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations.  Sam's Club comparable sales for fiscal 2021 benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by both our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations and by lower fuel sales.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% and 2.2% to comparable sales for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.
35
Consistent Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2022
2021
Net sales
$
567,762
$
...
%
6.9
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.8
%
20.9
%
For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment.
For fiscal 2021, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was flat when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from strong growth in comparable sales, offset by $4.0 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes improving our customer-facing initiatives in stores and clubs and creating a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.  As such, we continue to allocate more capital to supply chain, omni-channel initiatives, technology and store remodels and less to new store and club openings.  The following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2022
2021
Supply chain, omni-channel, technology and other
$
7,197
$
...
10,609
$
7,828
Walmart International
2,497
2,436
Total capital expenditures
$
13,106
$
10,264
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was 5.6% for both fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  ROI was 14.9% and 14.0% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, which increased primarily due to the increase in operating income.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI. As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain
36
expense items and adds interest income; and adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.  Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
...
2021
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
13,940
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
25,942
$
...
+ Rent
2,274
2,626
ROI operating income
$
39,032
$
...
2022
2021
2020
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
244,860
...
26,060
37,966
22,296
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.  Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See "
Liquidity and Capital Resources
" for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of $24.2 billion, $36.1 billion and $25.3 billion for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of $11.1 billion, $25.8 billion and $14.6 billion for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 due to the same reasons as the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $2.8 billion in increased capital expenditures.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2021 increased when compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the impact of the global health crisis which accelerated inventory sell-through, as well as the timing and payment of inventory purchases, incremental COVID-19 related expenses and certain benefit payments.  Free cash flow for
37
fiscal 2021 increased when compared to fiscal 2020 due to the same reasons as the increase in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $0.4 billion in decreased capital expenditures.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2022
...
36,074
$
25,255
Payments for property and equipment
(13,106)
(10,264)
(10,705)
Free cash flow
$
11,075
$
...
(16,117)
(14,299)
(1)
"Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2022
2021
2020
Total revenues
$
572,754
$
...
%
1.9
%
Net sales
$
567,762
$
...
%
1.9
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
7.7
%
8.7
%
2.7
%
Gross profit rate
24.4
%
24.3
%
24.1
%
Operating income
$
25,942
$
22,548
$
20,568
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.6
%
4.1
%
4.0
%
Loss on extinguishment of debt
$
2,410
$
—
$
—
Other (gains) and losses
$
3,000
$
(210)
$
(1,958)
Consolidated net income
$
13,940
$
13,706
$
15,201
Unit counts at period end
(1)
10,593
11,443
11,501
Retail square feet at period end
(1)
1,060
1,121
1,129
(1)
Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end, and reflects the removal of stores in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to closing the divestitures in fiscal 2022.  Permanently closed locations are not included.
Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased $13.6 billion or 2.4% and $35.2 billion or 6.7% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $12.5 billion or 2.3% and $35.3 billion or 6.8% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments which benefited from strong U.S. consumer spending and some inflation, along with positive comparable sales in most of our remaining international markets.  The increase was partially offset by a $32.6 billion net sales decrease primarily related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Net sales also benefited from a $4.5 billion positive impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2022.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments as well as positive comparable sales in the majority of our international markets resulting from increased demand stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall net sales growth was strong despite certain operating limitations in several international markets in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 due to government regulations and precautionary measures taken as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The net sales increase was partially offset by a negative impact from fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $5.0 billion.
Our gross profit rate increased 14 and 20 basis points for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to price management in the Walmart U.S. segment driven by cost
38
inflation as well as merchandise mix, partially offset by increased supply chain costs.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to strategic sourcing initiatives, strong sales in higher margin categories, and fewer markdowns.  This was partially offset in the Walmart U.S. segment by carryover of prior year price investment as well as the temporary closure of our Auto Care Centers and Vision Centers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment.  For fiscal 2021, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was flat when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from strong growth in comparable sales, offset by $4.0 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Loss on extinguishment of debt was $2.4 billion in fiscal 2022 due to the early retirement of certain higher rate long-term debt to reduce interest expense in future periods.
Other gains and losses consisted of a net loss of $3.0 billion and a net gain of $0.2 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The loss in fiscal 2022 primarily reflects net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity investments, as well as $0.4 billion in incremental losses associated with the divestiture of certain international operations which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  The gain in fiscal 2021 primarily reflects $8.7 billion in net gains associated with the fair value changes of our equity investments, partially offset by the $8.3 billion pre-tax loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for sale or sold in fiscal 2021.
Our effective income tax rate was 25.4% for fiscal 2022, 33.3% for fiscal 2021, and 24.4% for fiscal 2020.  The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, and the increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, is primarily due to the $8.3 billion loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for sale or sold in fiscal 2021, which provided minimal realizable tax benefit.  Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 is presented in
Note 9
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $13.9 billion and $13.7 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, which represents an increase of $0.2 billion and a decrease of $1.5 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $4.87, $4.75 and $5.19 for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2022
2021
2020
Net sales
$
393,247
$
...
%
2.8
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
6.4
%
8.7
%
2.9
%
Operating income
$
21,587
$
19,116
$
17,380
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.5
%
5.2
%
5.1
%
Unit counts at period end
4,742
4,743
4,756
Retail square feet at period end
703
703
703
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $23.3 billion or 6.3% and $29.0 billion or 8.5% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 6.4% and 8.7% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2022 were driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which includes strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years.  In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, average ticket increased while transactions decreased as customers consolidated shopping trips and purchased larger baskets.  Transaction growth turned positive in April 2021 and continued with strong growth through the rest of the year as customers' pre-pandemic behaviors largely resumed.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2021 were driven by growth in average ticket primarily resulting from meeting the increased demand due to economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic while transactions decreased as customers consolidated shopping trips.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% and 5.4% to comparable sales for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Gross profit rate increased 51 basis points for fiscal 2022 and was flat for fiscal 2021, when compared to the respective previous fiscal year.  The increase in fiscal 2022 gross profit rate was primarily due to price management driven by cost inflation as well merchandise mix, which includes lapping the temporary closures of our Auto Care and Vision Centers and
39
growth in our advertising business, partially offset by increased supply chain costs.  Gross profit rate for fiscal 2021 benefited from strategic sourcing initiatives and fewer markdowns, but was offset by a change in merchandise mix, the carryover effect of prior price investment and the temporary closure of our Auto Care and Vision Centers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 31 basis points for fiscal 2022 when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Despite the strong sales growth described above, fiscal 2022 operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased primarily due to investments in wages, partially offset by lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $1.9 billion.  For fiscal 2021, operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 15 basis points primarily due to strong sales, which were partially offset by $3.2 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic including special bonuses, expanded sick and emergency leave pay, costs associated with outfitting our stores and associates with masks, gloves and sanitizer, and expanded cleaning practices.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $2.5 billion and increased $1.7 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2022
2021
2020
Net sales
$
100,959
$
...
%
(0.6)
%
Operating income
$
3,758
$
3,660
$
3,370
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.7
%
3.0
%
2.8
%
Unit counts at period end
5,251
6,101
6,146
Retail square feet at period end
277
337
345
Net sales for the Walmart International segment decreased $20.4 billion or 16.8% and increased $1.2 billion or 1.0% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the reduction in net sales was driven by a $32.6 billion decrease primarily related to the divestitures of Asda and Seiyu, which closed during the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  This decrease was partially offset by positive comparable sales in most of our remaining markets, as well as positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $4.5 billion.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales growth in the majority of our markets driven by changes in consumer behavior in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $5.0 billion.  The pandemic led to significant economic pressures and channel and mix shifts due to changes in consumer behavior, including accelerated growth in eCommerce in several markets. While several of our markets experienced extensive store and operational closures in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 as a result of government mandates, most closed stores and warehouses had resumed operations by the third quarter of fiscal 2021.
Gross profit rate decreased 55 basis points and increased 50 basis points for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the decrease was primarily driven by shifts into lower margin formats and the impact related to our divested markets.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to Flipkart's improved margin mix and reduced fuel sales in the U.K.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 71 basis points and increased 14 basis points for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2022 was primarily due to impacts from the divested markets and $0.4 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from depreciation and amortization expense not having been recorded for our operations in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to their held for sale classification at the end of fiscal 2021 and prior to closing during the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to $0.5 billion of incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by positive comparable sales in the majority of our markets and lapping a $0.4 billion non-cash impairment charge recorded in fiscal 2020.
Operating income for fiscal 2022 included a $0.3 billion impact from positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and fiscal 2021 included a $0.2 billion impact from negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.1 billion and $0.3 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
40
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2022
2021
2020
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
73,556
$
...
%
1.6
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
15.0
%
8.7
%
1.6
%
Operating income
$
2,259
$
1,906
$
1,642
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.1
%
3.0
%
2.8
%
Unit counts at period end
600
599
599
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
64,860
$
...
%
0.9
%
Operating income
$
1,923
$
1,645
$
1,486
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.0
%
2.8
...
2.8
%
(1)
We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.  Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment.
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased $9.6 billion or 15.1% and $5.1 billion or 8.7% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales growth, including fuel, of 15.0%.  Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket due to increased consumer spending, which was aided by government stimulus, and also includes some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years. The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% to comparable sales. For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales, including fuel, of 8.7%. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations and by lower fuel sales. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.2% to comparable sales.
Gross profit rate decreased 68 basis points and increased 65 basis points for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to increased fuel sales which have lower margins, cost inflation, and higher supply chain costs, partially offset by favorable sales mix, including reduced tobacco sales.  For fiscal
2021
, gross profit rate increased due to favorable sales mix, including lower fuel and tobacco sales, and improvement in inventory losses which was partially offset by price investment and higher eCommerce fulfillment costs.
Membership and other income increased 13.1% and 6.8% for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to growth in total members and increased Plus Member penetration. For fiscal 2021, the increase was primarily due to growth in total members, which benefited from higher overall renewal rates and higher Plus Member penetration.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 82 basis points and increased 42 basis points for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Fiscal 2022 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales as well as a benefit from $0.2 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by reduced tobacco sales.  Despite the increased sales growth described above, fiscal 2021 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to $0.3 billion of incremental costs related to the pandemic, which included additional costs such as special bonuses, expanded cleaning practices and security, expanded sick and emergency leave pay, and outfitting our associates with masks and gloves.  Additionally, the increase in operating expense as a percentage of segment net sales was affected by reduced tobacco and fuel sales.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.4 billion and $0.3 billion for fiscal
2022 and
2021, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our global investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
41
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
36,074
$
25,255
Net cash provided by operating activities was $24.2 billion, $36.1 billion and $25.3 billion for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2021, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to the impact of the global health crisis which accelerated inventory sell-through, as well as the timing and payment of inventory purchases, incremental COVID-19 related expenses and certain benefit payments.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $14.8 billion and $17.7 billion as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $6.3 billion and $2.6 billion as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. While we are currently evaluating recent regulations issued from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and the U.S. Treasury Department, we do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2022 and 2021, cash and cash equivalents of $4.3 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions.  Of the $4.3 billion as of January 31, 2022, approximately $2.2 billion can only be accessed through dividends or intercompany financing arrangements subject to approval of the Flipkart minority shareholders; however, this cash is expected to be utilized by Flipkart.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(10,071)
$
(9,128)
Net cash used in investing activities was $6.0 billion, $10.1 billion and $9.1 billion for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and generally consisted of capital expenditures.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased $4.1 billion for fiscal 2022 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to the net proceeds received from the divestitures of Asda and Seiyu, partially offset by increased capital expenditures.  Net cash used in investing activities increased $0.9 billion for fiscal 2021 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily as a result of lapping the net proceeds received from the sale of our banking operations in Walmart Canada and the change in other investing activities, partially offset by decreased capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures
Refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2022 and 2021.  For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $18 billion, with a focus on supply chain, automation, customer-facing initiatives and technology.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(16,117)
$
(14,299)
Net cash from financing activities generally consists of transactions related to our short-term and long-term debt, financing obligations, dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.  Transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders are also classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Fiscal 2022 net cash used in financing activities increased $6.7 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase is primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment
42
of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes, as well as increased share repurchases, partially offset by new long-term debt issuances in the current year and equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock.  Fiscal 2021 net cash used in financing activities increased $1.8 billion for fiscal 2021 when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase was primarily due to the timing of issuances and repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by both a reduction in cash used to pay down short-term borrowings as well as share repurchases.
Sale of Subsidiary Stoc
k
During fiscal 2022, the Company received $3.2 billion primarily related to a new equity funding for the Company's majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary, which reduced the Company's ownership from approximately 83% as of January 31, 2021 to approximately 75%.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2022
...
4,048
$
13,315
Average daily short-term borrowings
626
1,577
7,120
...
%
2.5
%
Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2022 and 2021 were $0.4 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, with weighted-average interest rates of 2.9% and 1.9%, respectively.  We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2022 that provide additional liquidity, if needed.  Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
As of January 31, 2022, we have $1.8 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.7 billion was drawn and represents an unrecorded current obligation.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2022:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2021
$
...
41,194
$
44,309
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
6,945
6,945
Repayments of long-term debt
(3,010)
(10,000)
(13,010)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
2,687
(2,687)
—
...
34,864
$
37,667
Our total outstanding long-term debt decreased $6.6 billion during fiscal 2022, primarily due to the extinguishment and maturities of certain long-term debt, partially offset by the issuance of new long-term debt in September 2021.  Refer to
Note
6
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the maturities, extinguishment and issuances of long-term debt.  The early extinguishment of certain long-term debt allowed us to retire higher rate debt to reduce interest expense in future periods.  In connection with this early extinguishment of debt, the Company paid premiums of $2.3 billion, which represents the majority of the $2.4 billion loss recorded on the transaction during fiscal 2022.
Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $16.0 billion, with approximately $1.3 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2023.  Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2022 and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments.
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were $6.2 billion, $6.1 billion and $6.0 billion for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Effective February 17, 2022, the Board of Directors approved the fiscal 2023 annual dividend of $2.24 per share, an increase over  the fiscal 2022 annual dividend of $2.20 per share.  For fiscal 2023, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.56 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
43
Record Date
Payable Date
...
September 6, 2022
December 9, 2022
January 3, 2023
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made prior to February 22, 2021 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2022.  On February 18, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases, and beginning February 22, 2021, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of January 31, 2022, authorization for $10.6 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.  In fiscal 2023, we plan to spend at least $10 billion in share repurchases.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2022
2021
2020
...
69.7
19.4
53.9
Average price paid per share
$
140.45
$
135.20
$
105.98
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
9,787
$
...
$
5,717
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations.  Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases and purchase obligations.  See
Note 6
and
Note 7
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively.
As of January 31, 2022, the Company has $27.9 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $9.3 billion is due within one year.  Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above.  Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  As of January 31, 2022, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
44
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
Other Matters
In
Note 10
...
Part I
I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," we discuss, under the sub-caption "
Opioids Litigation
," the Prescription Opiate Litigation and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom.  In that
Note 10
, we also discuss, under the sub-caption "
Asda Equal Value Claims,"
the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter.  We discuss various legal proceedings related to the Federal and State Prescription Opiate Litigation, DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation and Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "I. Supplemental Information." We also discuss items related to the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, the Money Transfer Agent Services Proceedings matter and the Foreign Direct Investment matters in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "II. Certain Other Matters."  We also discuss an environmental matter with the State of California in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "III. Environmental Matters."  The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies, how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Inventories
We value inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail inventory method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for Walmart U.S. segment's inventories.  The inventory at the Sam's Club segment is valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.  When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.  Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices.  As a measure of sensitivity, a 1% increase to our retail price indices would not have resulted in a decrease to the carrying value of inventory.  As of January 31, 2022 and 2021, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at first-in, first-out ("FIFO").
45
Impairment of Assets
We evaluate long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Management's judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and financial performance.  The evaluation of long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level.  The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in demographics.  Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period.  These factors could cause management to conclude that indicators of impairment exist and require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the related long-lived assets.  Impairment charges on assets held and used were immaterial in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020.  As a measure of sensitivity, fiscal 2022 impairment would not change materially with a 10% decrease in the undiscounted cash flows for the stores or clubs with indicators of impairment.
In fiscal 2021, the Company's operations in Argentina, the United Kingdom and Japan met the held for sale criteria.  As a result, the individual disposal groups were measured at fair value, less costs to sell, which resulted in impairment charges that were included in the total estimated pre-tax loss of $8.3 billion recorded in fiscal 2021, as well as $0.4 billion in incremental charges associated with the United Kingdom and Japan divestitures upon closing of the transactions during the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
.
Business Combinations, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, are recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition.  The determination of fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available. For intangible assets acquired in a business combination, we typically use the income method. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives. The excess of the purchase price over fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill is typically assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition.  Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics.  As of January 31, 2022, our reporting units consisted of Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired.  Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary.  If we determine, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed.  The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions.  These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based approach.  Historically, our reporting units have generated sufficient returns to recover the cost of goodwill, as the fair value significantly exceeded the carrying value.  Our indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have also historically generated sufficient returns to recover their cost.  Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.  Due to certain strategic restructuring decisions, we recorded approximately $0.7 billion in impairment in fiscal 2020 related to acquired trade names and acquired developed software.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either not probable or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made.  Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
46
Income Taxes
Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result.
Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  This determination requires the use of judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years.  Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies on estimates.
As guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of certain equity investments.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal 2022, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps decreased $0.2 billion primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2022.
47
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
410
...
%
2.9
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
2.7
%
(1)
Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2022, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 22% of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on January 31, 2022 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $0.1 billion.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments and operations in countries other than the U.S., as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt.  For fiscal 2022, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $0.6 billion net loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $1.0 billion and $0.1 billion as of January 31, 2022 and January 31, 2021, respectively.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain currencies in fiscal 2022.  The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $1.0 billion.  A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2022 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $40 million.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to investment risk primarily related to changes in the stock price of our equity investments with readily determinable fair values.  The change in fair value is recorded within other gains and losses and resulted in a loss of $2.4 billion in fiscal 2022 due to net decreases in the stock price of those equity investments.  As of January 31, 2022, the fair value of our equity investments with readily determinable fair values was $11.9 billion.  As of January 31, 2022, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $1.2 billion.
48
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2022
Table of Contents
...
54
Consolidated Balance Sheets
55
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
56
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
57
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
58
49
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements").  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 18, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2022, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and has made accruals with respect to these matters, where appropriate. For some matters, a liability is not probable, or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated and therefore an accrual has not been made. Where a liability is reasonably possible and may be material, such matters have been disclosed. Management assessed the probability of occurrence and the estimation of any potential loss based on the ability to predict the number of claims that may be filed or whether any loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. For example, in assessing the probability of occurrence in a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment to determine if it can predict the number of claims that may be filed and whether it can reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from that proceeding.
Auditing management's accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of occurrence for contingencies or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
50
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies. For example, we tested controls over the Company's assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company's determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company's assessment of the probability of occurrence or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors, reviewed opinions provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and external counsel, and evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal legal counsel. We also evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures.
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
...
March 18, 2022
51
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2022, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. as of January 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2022, and the related notes and our report dated March 18, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2022
2021
2020
Revenues:
Net sales
$
567,762
$
555,233
$
519,926
Membership and other income
4,992
3,918
4,038
Total revenues
572,754
559,151
523,964
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
429,000
420,315
394,605
...
117,812
116,288
108,791
Operating income
25,942
22,548
20,568
Interest:
Debt
1,674
1,976
2,262
Finance lease
320
339
337
...
1,836
2,194
2,410
Loss on extinguishment of debt
2,410
—
—
Other (gains) and losses
3,000
(
210
...
(
1,958
)
Income before income taxes
18,696
20,564
20,116
Provision for income taxes
4,756
6,858
4,915
Consolidated net income
13,940
13,706
15,201
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
267
)
...
(
320
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
13,673
$
13,510
$
14,881
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
4.90
$
4.77
$
5.22
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
4.87
4.75
5.19
...
2,792
2,831
2,850
Diluted
2,805
2,847
2,868
Dividends declared per common share
$
2.20
$
...
2022
2021
2020
Consolidated net income
$
13,940
$
13,706
$
15,201
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
267
)
...
(
320
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
13,673
13,510
14,881
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
2,442
842
...
221
)
122
Cash flow hedges
(
444
)
...
(
1,244
)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
2,770
826
(
...
(
1,263
)
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
16,710
14,532
13,966
...
Inventories
56,511
44,949
Prepaid expenses and other
1,519
20,861
Total current assets
81,070
90,067
Property and equipment, net
94,515
92,201
Operating lease right-of-use assets
13,758
13,642
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
4,351
4,005
Goodwill
29,014
28,983
Other long-term assets
...
252,496
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
410
$
...
Accrued liabilities
26,060
37,966
Accrued income taxes
851
242
Long-term debt due within one year
2,803
3,115
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,483
1,466
Finance lease obligations due within one year
511
491
Total current liabilities
87,379
92,645
Long-term debt
34,864
41,194
Long-term operating lease obligations
13,009
12,909
Long-term finance lease obligations
4,243
3,847
Deferred income taxes and other
13,474
14,370
Commitments and contingencies
...
Capital in excess of par value
4,839
3,646
Retained earnings
86,904
88,763
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
11,766
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
83,253
80,925
Noncontrolling interest
...
See accompanying notes.
55
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Total
Shares
...
7,138
$
79,634
Adoption of new accounting standards, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
300
)
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
14,881
320
15,201
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
1,235
)
Cash dividends declared ($
2.12
per share)
—
...
(
5,639
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
74,669
6,883
81,552
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,510
196
13,706
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
213
)
826
Cash dividends declared ($
2.16
per share)
—
...
(
2,658
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
80,925
6,606
87,531
Consolidated net income
—
—
13,673
...
13,673
267
13,940
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
230
)
2,770
Cash dividends declared ($
2.20
per share)
—
...
(
9,808
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
56
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2022
2021
2020
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
13,940
$
13,706
$
15,201
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
10,658
11,152
10,987
Net unrealized and realized (gains) and losses
2,440
(
8,589
...
(
1,036
)
Deferred income taxes
(
755
)
1,911
320
Loss on extinguishment of debt
2,410
—
—
...
1,652
1,521
1,981
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
(
1,796
...
1,404
4,623
186
Accrued income taxes
39
(
136
...
24,181
36,074
25,255
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
13,106
)
...
(
10,705
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
394
215
321
Proceeds from disposal of certain operations, net of divested cash
7,935
56
833
...
(
9,128
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
193
(
324
...
(
4,656
)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
6,945
—
5,492
Repayments of long-term debt
(
13,010
)
...
(
[Total relevant lines: 4666]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2022 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2023-03-17.html)
================================================================================
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
wmt:segment
0000104169
wmt:AmountsDuefromBanksMember
2023-01-31
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
us-gaap:IndemnificationGuaranteeMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:PhonePeMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEuroMember
...
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingMember
...
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:DenominatedYenMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2025Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2025Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3950DebtDue2027Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3950DebtDue2027Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4150DebtDue2032Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4150DebtDue2032Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4500DebtDue2052Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4500DebtDue2052Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-04-08
iso4217:EUR
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A0183DebtDue2022Member
2022-07-15
iso4217:JPY
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A0183DebtDue2022Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2350DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-12-15
0000104169
wmt:A2350DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4250DebtDue2021Member
2021-04-15
0000104169
wmt:A4250DebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2021Member
2021-06-23
0000104169
wmt:FloatingRateDebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3125DebtDue2021Member
2021-06-23
0000104169
wmt:A3125DebtDue2021Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6750DebtDue2023Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6750DebtDue2023Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2850DebtDue2024Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2850DebtDue2024Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2024Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2650DebtDue2024Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3550DebtDue2025Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3550DebtDue2025Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3050DebtDue2026Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3050DebtDue2026Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5875DebtDue2027Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5875DebtDue2027Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3700DebtDue2028Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3700DebtDue2028Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2029Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3250DebtDue2029Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2375DebtDue2029Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2375DebtDue2029Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A7550DebtDue2030Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A7550DebtDue2030Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5250DebtDue2035Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5250DebtDue2035Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6500DebtDue2037Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6500DebtDue2037Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A6200DebtDue2038Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A6200DebtDue2038Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3950DebtDue2038Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3950DebtDue2038Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4875DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4875DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5000DebtDue2040Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5000DebtDue2040Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2041Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A5625DebtDue2041Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2043Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2043Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4750DebtDue2043Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4750DebtDue2043Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4300DebtDue2044Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4300DebtDue2044Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3625DebtDue2047Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A3625DebtDue2047Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4050DebtDue2048Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A4050DebtDue2048Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2950DebtDue2049Member
2021-09-23
0000104169
wmt:A2950DebtDue2049Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsNonrecurringMember
2021-02-01
2021-04-30
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2043Member
...
us-gaap:JudicialRulingMember
2022-08-17
wmt:securitiesClassAction
wmt:shareholder
wmt:officer
0000104169
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
country:US
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2020-02-01
2021-01-31
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2022, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 29, 2022, was $
186,168,142,989
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 31, 2023 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
15
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
48
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
50
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
82
Item 11
Executive Compensation
82
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
82
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
82
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2023
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on May 31, 2023 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
macroeconomic, geopolitical, and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which we operate, including inflation or deflation, generally and in certain product categories, the impact of supply chain challenges, and recessionary pressures;
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods, both generally and with respect to particular markets, segments or lines of business, including, but not limited to, advertising, fulfillment, healthcare, and financial services;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store and club openings, inventory levels and associated costs, product mix and demand for certain merchandise, consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns and debt levels;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, automation, supply chain, new stores and clubs as well as remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our workforce strategy, including the availability of necessary personnel to staff our stores, clubs and other facilities and the potential impact of changes to the costs of labor;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our consolidated, or one or more of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets or credit will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the adoption or creation of new, and modification of existing, governmental policies, programs, initiatives and actions in the markets in which we operate and elsewhere and actions with respect to such policies, programs and initiatives (including, but not limited to, changes in the enforcement priorities of regulatory authorities);
4
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to help people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings.  Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Each week, we serve approximately 240 million customers who visit more than 10,500 stores and numerous eCommerce websites in 20 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021").  During fiscal 2023, we generated total revenues of $611.3 billion, which was comprised primarily of net sales of $605.9 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2023, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 19 countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  To date, we now have over 8,100 pickup and approximately 7,000 delivery locations globally.  In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, which has enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings. We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra, as well as with our majority stake in PhonePe Private Limited ("PhonePe"), a digital transaction platform.
We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, service offerings, eCommerce websites and marketplaces as well as our supply chain combined with approximately 2.1 million associates as of January 31, 2023 to better serve our customers.  Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination.  In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members.  As we execute on our strategy globally, our flywheel is accelerating through offerings such as our Walmart Connect advertising business, Walmart Fulfillment Services, providing access to quality, affordable healthcare via Walmart Health and Flipkart Health+, and our financial services businesses.  These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our flywheel centered around our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
6
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.  We also previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures.  Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below.  Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to the exit of certain markets and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of $420.6 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 69% of our fiscal 2023 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $393.2 billion and $370.0 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, in-home delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options.  As of January 31, 2023, we had more tha
n 4,600 pickup locations and more than 3,900
same-day delivery locations.  Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits including unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, access to Paramount+ streaming service, and mobile scan & go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience.  We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com.  We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores, as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our flywheel strategy, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2023:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business primarily in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli & bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed & bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and other clinical services.
Other categories in the Walmart U.S. business include an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, and newer initiatives such as B2B last mile delivery services via Walmart GoLocal, and a suite of data products for merchants and suppliers via Walmart Luminate.
Additional service offerings include fuel, financial services and related products (including through our digital channels, stores and our fintech venture, ONE), such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment, and certain types of installment lending.
7
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Eloquii Elements," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Love & Sports," "Better Homes & Gardens," "Pioneer Woman" and "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Walmart U.S. is available to customers through supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day.  Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, social commerce platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition.  They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise and selection availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.  We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These strategies include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and
•
Expanding our flywheel and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services to provide our customers a broader set of offerings to meet expanding needs.
Distribution.
We continue to invest in supply chain automation and utilize a total of 163 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  For fiscal 2023, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 34 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship or deliver directly from more tha
n 3,900 s
tores.
8
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 19 countries outside of the U.S. as of January 31, 2023.  Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, China, and Africa (which includes Botswana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, and Zambia), and our majority-owned subsidiaries in India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Walmart International previously operated in Argentina prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recent divestitures.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com, walmart.cn and other sites.  Walmart International had net sales of $101.0 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 17% of our fiscal 2023 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $101.0 billion and $121.4 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its format mix.
Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates.  We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Divested of Walmart Argentina in November 2020.
•
Divested of Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021.
•
Divested of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021.
•
Bought out the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary in November 2022 and exited operations in certain countries in Africa in December 2022.
•
Increased our ownership in PhonePe, our digital transaction platform in India, as part of the separation from Flipkart in December 2022.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets and our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India.  Our financial services offerings continue to expand with our digital transaction platform anchored in payments at PhonePe in India.  We have expanded our marketplace in Mexico and Canada, which unlocks fulfillment and advertising services, and in China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia continue to drive ecommerce growth.
Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet.  As of January 31, 2023, Walmart International had over 2,900 pickup and approximately 2,500 delivery locations.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Lider," and "PhonePe."  In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to build mutually reinforcing businesses in areas such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, healthcare and financial services.  Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India continues to grow, providing a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising.  In Mexico, we also offer a value-based internet and telephone service allowing customers to enjoy digital connectivity, and in India we launched Flipkart Health+ enabling us to increase access to affordable care in that country.  Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help its various formats operate more efficiently, as well as to provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
9
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
Competition.
Walmart International competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce, and omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services.  Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.  Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers, and greater brand recognition.  They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 188 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and South Africa.  Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal 2023, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 100 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, more than 3,600 eCommerce sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities in India, as well as our physical retail stores.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.  Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of $84.3 billion for fiscal 2023, representing 14% of our consolidated fiscal 2023 net sales, and had net sales of $73.6 billion and $63.9 billion for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$110
$50
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost.  Plus Members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.  Beginning in fiscal 2023, Sam's Club launched a single loyalty rewards currency called Sam's Cash which merges and replaces existing Cash Rewards for Plus members and Cash Back for Sam's Club Mastercard holders.  Members may redeem Sam's Cash on purchases in the club and online, to pay for membership fees or for cash in clubs.  Sam's Cash does not expire and is available for monthly redemption.
Omni-channel.
Sam's Club provides an omni-channel experience to members, integrating warehouse clubs and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan & Go, ship-from-club, and delivery-from-club.  Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel, tobacco and other categories;
10
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses, and tire and battery centers;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs; and
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances, and third-party gift cards.
Within the categories above, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand its assortment and deliver member value.
Operations.
Sam's Club is available to members through warehouse club locations, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day.  Club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before regular operating hours.  Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience.  Curbside Pickup is available at all clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members.
Sam's Club also offers "Scan & Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete.
Distribution.
We utilize 29 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., as well as some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  During fiscal 2023, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from these facilities, while the remainder of our purchases were shipped directly to Sam's Club locations by suppliers.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 13 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport perishable and non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
11
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Consistent with applicable laws, we offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions.  For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks."
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Priorities
Our ESG strategy is centered on the concept of creating shared value: we believe we maximize long-term value and create competitive advantage for the Company by serving our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, business partners, and communities. We believe that addressing such societal needs builds the value of our business, including by enhancing customer and associate trust, creating new revenue streams, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future advantage, and strengthening the underlying systems on which Walmart and our stakeholders rely.
We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create shared value: issues that rank high in relevance to our business and stakeholders and which Walmart is positioned to make a positive impact. Our current ESG priorities are categorized into four broad themes: opportunity, sustainability, community, and ethics and integrity.
•
Opportunity
.  Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive economic opportunity. We aim to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion, and create opportunity for Walmart associates (as further described in the Human Capital Management section below), our suppliers and workers in supply chains, and the communities in which we operate. Doing so helps us fulfill our customer mission, strengthens our business and helps people build a better life for themselves and their families.
•
Sustainability
. Walmart's sustainability efforts focus on our ability to create and preserve long-term value for both people and planet. With respect to people, our sustainability efforts include sourcing responsibly, helping prevent forced labor, empowering women, creating inclusive economic opportunity and selling safer, healthier products. With respect to the planet, our efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains by reducing emissions, protecting and restoring nature, and reducing waste. To help address the effects of climate change, Walmart has set science-based targets for emissions reduction, including our goal to achieve zero emissions in our operations by 2040—without offsets—and to reduce or avoid one billion metric tons of emissions in our value chain by 2030 under our Project Gigaton™ initiative.
•
Community
. Walmart aims to serve and strengthen communities
by operating our business in a way that meets the needs of our customer and community stakeholder groups, including by providing safer, healthier and more affordable food and other products, disaster support, associate volunteerism, local grant programs and community cohesion initiatives.
•
Ethics and Integrity
.
At every level of our Company, we work to create a culture that inspires trust among our associates, with our customers, and in the communities we serve
.
We periodically publish information on our ESG priorities, strategies, and progress on our corporate website and may update those disclosures from time to time. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Human Capital Management
At Walmart, we're committed to help people save money and live better around the world. This mission is delivered by our associates who make the difference for our millions of customers and members every day.  As of the end of fiscal 2023, we
12
employed approximately 2.1 million associates worldwide, with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.5 million associates internationally.  In the U.S., approximately 93% of our associates are hourly and approximately 70% of our associates are full-time.
We know the success and progress we've seen this year and throughout our Company's history is because of our associates who work every day to fulfill our mission.  That's why we're focused on providing opportunities for associates to grow and learn.  For some, we are a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers, and for others a place where associates can grow their careers across our global omni-channel business. No matter the role or location, we're focused on developing, rewarding, and retaining associates in an ever-changing environment. As customer expectations and technology change the nature of work, we know it's our people – our humanity – that will differentiate us from the competition, so this must be a top priority.
Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities: belonging, well-being, growth and digital.
Belonging
-
Build a Walmart for everyone: a diverse, equitable and inclusive company, where associates' ideas and opinions matter
.  We are focused on having an inclusive culture where everyone feels they belong.  We publish our diversity representation twice yearly, and hold ourselves accountable to providing recurring culture, diversity, equity, and inclusion updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and members of the Board of Directors.  Of the approximately 2.1 million associates employed worldwide, 52% identify as women.  In the U.S., 50% of the approximately 1.6 million associates identify as people of color.
We review our processes regarding our commitment to fair-pay practices.  We are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance, and the work they do.
To build a company where associates feel engaged, valued and heard, we gather and respond to associates' feedback in a variety of ways, including but not limited to our annual associate engagement survey, our Open Door process, and one-on-one interactions.  Management reviews the results of feedback obtained from our formal associate engagement survey.
Well-being
-
Focus on the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates.
We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages, as well as a broad range of benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. In the U.S., we offer affordable healthcare coverage to our full-time and eligible part-time associates as well as company paid benefits such as 401(k) match, family building support, maternity leave, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance, behavioral and mental health services, and a store discount card or Sam's Club membership.  Additional information about how we invest in our associates' well-being, including wage structure and pay, can be found in our Human Capital brief in our most recent ESG reporting, which is available on our corporate website.  Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Growth
-
Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills.
We are invested in the growth of our associates in support of our business and their success by offering good jobs that lead to great careers and better lives.  We launched the global Walmart Academy to help associates build and grow their careers, creating one of the largest learning ecosystems in the world. The global Walmart Academy offers training for on-the-job retail skills, leadership courses, and well-being training, serving associates through combination of  digital and in-person offerings. The global focus builds on moving much more to a learning in the flow of work approach.
We also provide access to educational opportunities for our part-time and full-time frontline eligible associates in the U.S. through our Live Better U program, which provides access to earn a high school diploma or a college degree. Walmart pays 100% of associates' college tuition, books and fees. Our Live Better U program aligns education offerings with Walmart's own areas of growth, providing opportunities for associates to become great at the job they have today and prepare for the job of tomorrow. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions.  Our focus on providing a path of opportunity for our associates through robust training, competitive wages and benefits, and career advancement creates a strong associate value proposition and strengthens our workforce.
Digital
-
Accelerate digital transformation and ways of working to improve the associate experience and drive business results
.  To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in digital tools like Me@Walmart, MyClub and Me@Campus to improve associate productivity, engagement, and performance. The MyFeedback app was developed to capture real-time associate feedback. Walmart supports associates who are on the U.S. Medical Plan with free virtual visits which include visits for medical doctor urgent care, along with mental health care with psychiatrist and psychologists.
13
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
51
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.
2018
49
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
53
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.
2019
48
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC.
2019
58
Judith McKenna
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2018.  From February 2015 to January 2018, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Walmart U.S.
2018
56
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective November 15, 2019.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain.
2019
49
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
56
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020.  From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
55
John David Rainey
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 2022.  From September 2016 to June 2022, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations for PayPal Holdings, Inc.
2022
52
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
14
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, talent, supply chain automation, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives, may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and interconnected ecosystem for our customers that deepens and maintains our relationships with our customers across our various businesses and partnerships and reinforces our overall enterprise strategy. The success of this strategy is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
.  With the interconnected components of this enterprise strategy and an increasing allocation of capital expenditures focused on these initiatives, changes in customer or member perceptions about our reputation or our failure to successfully execute on individual components of this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain investments in eCommerce, technology, talent, automation, including any operating losses incurred, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and services and the competitive environment.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those related to ESG issues) and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our reputation and relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell or services we offer, our market share and the growth of our business.
We face strong competition from other retailers, wholesale club operators, omni-channel retailers, and other businesses which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, social commerce platforms, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness, and financial services.  The omni-channel retail landscape is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and the entry of new, well-funded competitors may increase competitive
15
pressures. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail and other markets in which we operate, omni-channel innovations and omni-channel ecosystems developed by our competitors or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, consolidation or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, competitive omni-channel ecosystems, or reductions in operations may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could allow these companies to provide a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, including energy prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business.  These arrangements (such as ONE, our fintech joint venture, and our healthcare initiative with UnitedHealth Group) may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our recently divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
16
Operational Risks
Global or regional health pandemics or epidemics, including COVID-19, could negatively impact our business, financial position and results of operations.
The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional pandemics or epidemics are uncertain and difficult to predict.  A pandemic, such as COVID-19, or other epidemic could impact our business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, the extent and duration of measures to try to contain the spread of a virus or other disease (such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, business and government shutdowns, and other restrictions on retailers), our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things.  Customer behaviors changed rapidly during the course of the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the event of a resurgence of infections or future mutations, variants or related strains of the virus become prevalent, customer demand for certain products may fluctuate and customer behaviors may change, which may challenge our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These factors may result in higher demand for certain products and less demand for others, as well as out-of-stock positions in certain products, along with delays in delivering those products (due to supply chain and transportation issues) and could impact inventory levels in the future.  Other factors and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to: the severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are additional outbreaks or spikes in the number of cases, future mutations or related strains of the virus in areas in which we and our suppliers operate; further increased operational costs; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time, capital and other resources to the pandemic response; the effectiveness and extent of administration of vaccinations and medical treatments, including for any variants; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides; and the long-term impact of the pandemic or epidemic on our business, including consumer behaviors.  These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
To the extent that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the U.S. and the global economy, or a future pandemic or epidemic occurs, such events may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation, and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, global health epidemics or pandemics, catastrophic and other events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; geopolitical tensions or events; regional or global health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks (such as COVID-19); and catastrophic and other events, such as war, civil unrest (including theft, looting or vandalism), terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), or the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft in countries in which we operate, in which our suppliers are located, or in other areas of the world (such as in Ukraine where a war currently exists between Ukraine and Russia) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise) and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, increases in the costs of procuring products as a result of either reduced availability or economic sanctions, increased transportation costs (whether due to fuel prices, fuel supply, or otherwise), the disruption (whether directly or indirectly) of critical infrastructure systems, banking systems, utility services or energy availability to our stores, clubs and our facilities, and the disruption in our communications with our stores, clubs and our other facilities.
Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions, drought, or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) are expected to be widespread and unpredictable.  Certain impacts of physical risk may include: temperature changes that increase the heating and cooling costs at stores, clubs, and distribution or fulfillment centers; extreme weather patterns that affect the production or sourcing of certain commodities; flooding and extreme storms that damage or destroy our buildings and inventory; and heat and extreme weather
17
events that cause long-term disruption or threats to the habitability of the communities in which Walmart operates. Relative to transition risk, certain impacts may include: changes in energy and commodity prices driven by climate-related weather events; prolonged climate-related events affecting macroeconomic conditions with related effects on consumer spending and confidence; stakeholder perception of our engagement in climate-related policies; and new regulatory requirements resulting in higher compliance risk and operational costs.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers; theft, loss or spoilage of inventory; and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, our operations in the U.S. comprise a significant portion of our financial and operational performance. Therefore, any of the above matters that uniquely impact or are specifically concentrated in the U.S. could materially adversely affect our financial and operational performance
.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control (such as, for example, the factors that occurred with respect to the availability of supply for baby formula during the prior fiscal year).
In addition, U.S. and international trade policies, tariffs and other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods, trade sanctions imposed between certain countries and entities, the limitation on the exportation or importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.  We are also subject to reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms.
Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and such products also expose us to product liability or food safety claims.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.  In addition, third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  Whether laws related to these marketplace transactions, including, but not limited to, intellectual property and products liability laws, apply to us is currently unsettled and any unfavorable changes or interpretations could expose us to liability, loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position.  In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are controversial, counterfeit, pirated, or stolen, or otherwise fail to comply with applicable law or the proprietary rights of others.  Although we have marketplace compliance controls and impose contractual terms on sellers to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect certain prohibited items, enforce such terms, or collect sufficient damages for breaches. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth and enterprise strategy.
18
We rely extensively on information and financial systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security incidents and breaches (including through cyberattacks, which may be from cybercriminals or sophisticated state-sponsored threat actors), catastrophic events such as fires, major or extended winter storms, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, usage errors by our associates or contractors, civil or political unrest, or armed hostilities.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.  If our systems are damaged, breached, attacked, interrupted, or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we frequently update our information technology hardware, software, processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely or successfully integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal year ending January 31, 2024, we initiated an upgrade to our existing financial system, including our general ledger and other applications. If we are unable to implement this upgrade as planned, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected; our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed; and our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be negatively impacted.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online and enable us to deliver products and services do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media, online advertising, and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world, and we continue to make investments in supply chain automation to support our omni-channel strategy. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Moreover, some of the various technology systems and services on which we rely are provided and managed by third-party service providers. To the extent either our or such other third-party systems and services do not perform or function as anticipated, whether because of an inherent flaw in the technology or a faulty implementation, such failure can significantly interfere with our ability to meet our customers' changing expectations. Any disruption or failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly, and secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise and services at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology in a cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems used in our acquired eCommerce, technology or other businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including personal information and/or payment information and related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. Such attacks, if successful, in addition to potential data misuse and/or loss, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity, and our ability to efficiently operate our business.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers, members or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
19
Any failure to maintain the privacy or security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates, business partners and vendors, whether as a result of cyberattacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, result in fines, penalties, and liability, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we receive and store in our information systems personal information and/or payment information about our customers and members, and we also receive and store information concerning our associates and vendors.  In addition, our health and wellness business operations, the Walmart Health locations, and third-party service providers who handle information on our behalf, store and maintain personal health information.  Some of this information is stored digitally in connection with the digital platforms and technologies that we use to conduct and facilitate our various businesses.
We utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates, business partners or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated and frequent.  Attacks against information systems and devices, whether our own or those of our third-party service providers, create risk of cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware, malware, or phishing incidents. We expect to continue to experience such attempted attacks in the future.  Cyberattacks and threat actors can be sponsored by particular countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of hackers with a wide range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyberattacks, computer viruses, phishing incidents, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. Mitigation and remediation recommendations continue to evolve, and addressing vulnerabilities is a priority for us.  The increased use of remote work infrastructure in recent years has also increased the possible attack surfaces. Some of our systems and third-party service providers' systems have experienced security incidents or breaches and although they have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a compromise or breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent vulnerabilities or defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.
Any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions (including, with respect to health information, liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or "HIPAA"), customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial position and results of operations. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security event, breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs. To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, members, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance programs, information technology, and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk.  Disruptions in our systems caused by security incidents, breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with (such as strategic partners, suppliers, banks, or utility companies) – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, members, financial services firms, and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
Our reputation with our customers and members is important to the success of our enterprise strategy, which combines traditional retail, membership models, marketplaces, financial services, healthcare, and other customer and business services into a series of interconnected assets to make it seamless for customers to interact with us. Security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting
20
our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security compromise or ransomware event could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, electronic benefits transfer (EBT) cards, mobile payments, and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security incidents, breaches, or other compromises from known malware or ransomware or other threats that may be developed in the future.  In certain circumstances, our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
Additionally, through various financial service partners and our ONE fintech joint venture, we offer various services such as money transfers, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders, check cashing, prepaid access, co-branded credits cards, installment lending, and earned wage access. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including privacy, authentication and tokenization, global anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations as well as international, federal and state consumer financial laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation.
The Company also has compliance obligations associated with privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include liability for security and privacy breaches.  Among other obligations, breaches may trigger obligations under international, federal and state laws to notify affected individuals, government agencies and the media.  Consequently, cybersecurity attacks that cause a data breach could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
Changes in type or scope of offerings of our health and wellness business or the Walmart Health business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments across the U.S. and in various of our international markets such as Canada and Mexico. We also provide management services to Walmart Health centers that offer medical, dental, behavioral health and other health services in a number of states, as well as a national telehealth service provider. In addition, Walmart's 10-year collaboration with UnitedHealth Group includes agreements for Walmart Health to provide value-based care to patients in certain areas of the U.S., among other initiatives.
A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs"). Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options and/or home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any
21
additional
changes in the state or federal regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of health reform efforts, and other changes to or novel interpretations of existing state or federal laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
Walmart Health clinical operations are also subject to numerous risks, including but not limited to: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for services; changes in our payer mix; changes in the health insurance market generally; our inability to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans; competition for patients from other healthcare providers, including those that offer telehealth services; changes to healthcare provider utilization practices and treatment methodologies; trends toward value-based purchasing and price transparency; overall economic conditions and the ability of patients to pay for services; staffing challenges, including retention of a sufficient number and quality of healthcare professionals; compliance with the complex and extensive laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry; changes in laws and regulations, including as a result of health reform efforts; and healthcare technology initiatives, including those related to patient data and interoperability; and public health conditions.
One or a combination of the factors above may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities. In addition, these and other factors may adversely affect the type, volume and mix of services we provide, the reimbursement we receive for health and wellness services rendered, and the scope and pace of expansion of Walmart Health and related offerings. Any of these developments could, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including our enterprise strategy and management transitions within the Company's senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success. We compete for talent with other retail and non-retail businesses, including, for example, technology, health and wellness, and fintech businesses, and invest significant resources in training and motivating our associates. Increased competition among potential employers at all levels, including senior management and executive levels, could result in increased associate costs or make it more difficult to recruit and retain associates.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new, revised, or novel interpretations of existing labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income, capital expenditures, comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our effective tax rates, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of Walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
22
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate retail and eCommerce businesses in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2023, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 17% of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as India), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures or nationalization), antitrust and competition law regulatory matters (such as the competition investigations currently underway in Mexico related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart de Mexico, in Canada related to our subsidiary Wal-Mart Canada and competition proceedings in India related to our Flipkart subsidiary),
local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, foreign exchange or currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, geopolitical tensions or events, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the laws and regulations of other countries.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance
23
programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2023, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 83% of our consolidated net sales. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. and international operations as well as our business.
We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, any of which can impact our current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law could have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act and any other new tax rules, regulations, guidance, and interpretations, including collecting information not regularly produced by the Company or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to or seek to enforce novel interpretations of their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect and more permanent changes.  For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), the European Union and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed. In particular, the OECD's Pillar Two initiative introduces a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis and for which many jurisdictions have now committed to an effective enactment date starting January 1, 2024.  The impact of these potential new rules as well as any other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations could have a material effect on our effective tax rate.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws, regulations, and interpretations of such laws and regulations specific to the businesses and jurisdictions in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate and could be materially adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.  In addition, the degree of regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face increases the likelihood that our efforts to adhere our practices and procedures to comply with these laws and legal requirements may be subject to frequent or increasing challenges.
Our health and wellness operations in the U.S. and the operations of the Walmart Health locations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, those related to: licensing, reimbursement arrangements, and other requirements and restrictions; registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; governmental and commercial reimbursement (including Medicare and Medicaid); data privacy and security and the sharing and interoperability of data, including obligations and restrictions related to health information (such as those imposed under HIPAA); billing and coding for healthcare services and properly handling overpayments; debt collection; necessity and adequacy of healthcare services; relationships with referral sources and referral recipients and other fraud and abuse issues, such as those addressed by anti-kickback and false claims laws and patient inducement regulations; qualification of healthcare practitioners; quality and standards of medical services and
24
equipment; and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, medical, dental, and behavioral healthcare services, including limitations on the corporate practice of medicine in certain states.
Health-related legislation at the federal and state level may have an adverse effect on our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations.  For example, in the U.S., the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various other regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, distribution, maintenance and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  In addition, there has been recent heightened governmental and public scrutiny of pharmaceutical product pricing, which has resulted in federal and state legislation and regulations, executive orders and other initiatives and proposals designed to increase transparency in pharmaceutical product pricing and reform government program reimbursement methodologies (for example, the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes, among other matters, policies designed to impact drug prices and reduce drug spending by the federal government). Other health reform efforts at the federal and state levels may also impact our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. We may not be able to predict the nature or success of reform initiatives, and the resulting uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters; protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; food and drug safety, including drug supply chain security requirements; trade, consumer protection, and safety, including the availability, sale, price label accuracy, advertisement, and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs as well as our ONE fintech joint venture); anti-money laundering prohibitions; consumer financial protection laws; economic, trade, and other sanctions matters; licensure, certification, and enrollment with government programs; data privacy and security and the sharing and interoperability of data; working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters; and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the U.S.  In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, fraud and other illicit activity as well as consumer financial protections laws and U.S. sanctions.  Increasing governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting diligence, and disclosure topics such as climate change, sustainability (including with respect to our supply chain), natural resources, waste reduction, energy, human capital, and risk oversight could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess, and report.
Moreover, we are also subject to data privacy and protection laws regulating the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), which was significantly modified by the California Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), new comprehensive privacy legislation passed in Connecticut (the Connecticut Data Protection Act), Colorado (the Colorado Privacy Act), Utah (the Utah Privacy Act) and Virginia (the Consumer Data Protection Act), each of which go into effect in 2023, as well as other laws and regulations such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act,  the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the United Kingdom's General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law), China's Personal Information Protection Act, and similar legislation in Quebec (An Act to modernize legislative provisions as regards the protection of personal information, SQ 2021, c 25). The potential effects of these laws are far-reaching, continue to evolve, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. These and other privacy and cybersecurity laws may carry significant potential penalties for noncompliance. For example, in the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the GDPR (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover in the prior year. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach.  Residents in jurisdictions with comprehensive privacy laws have expanded rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. Laws such as those in California, Connecticut, Colorado, Illinois, Utah, and Virginia may allow civil penalties for violations, and CCPA and CPRA provide a private right of action for data breaches.  Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We may be subjected to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including changing some portions of our business.  Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, impact our reputation and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny as to existing laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, in the U.S., shifting enforcement priorities for existing antitrust, competition, and pricing laws, as well as proposed new rules and regulations) generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices of
25
existing laws and regulations may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. If we fail to predict or respond adequately to changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our business, operations, and financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, we may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  The regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face, which may continue, amplifies these risks.  To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required licenses and certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages.  Failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment.  We are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, environmental and other governmental authorities.  We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain businesses we have divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years.  For example, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class or collective-action allegations, or both, in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
The Company has been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids and also is a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids, including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804) currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Similar cases that name the Company also have been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, healthcare providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement.  The Company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims and the related opioid matters. In addition, in July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart and other parties requesting the recipients show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations that related to a period prior to the Company's acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018.  The Company can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the notice, the amount of proceeds the Company may receive in indemnification, and can provide no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its consolidated financial statements. The Company is also a defendant in litigation with the Federal Trade Commission regarding the Company's money transfer agent services and is also cooperating with and responding to subpoenas issued by the U.S Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on behalf of the U.S. Department of Justice regarding the Company's consumer fraud prevention program and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer services, where Walmart is an agent.  The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation or investigations or any other related actions by governmental entities regarding these matters and can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.  We discuss in more detail these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and in
Note 10
in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
26
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. The exclusive forum provision may increase the costs for a shareholder to bring a claim or limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. While the exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with, and the exclusive forum provision will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under, the federal securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Our reputation may be adversely affected if we are not able to achieve our ESG goals.
We strive to deliver shared value through our business and our diverse stakeholders expect us to make significant progress in certain ESG priority issue areas.  From time to time, we announce certain aspirations and goals relevant to our priority ESG issues.  We periodically publish information about our ESG priorities, strategies, and progress on our corporate website and update our ESG reporting from time to time.  Achievement of these aspirations and goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and it is possible that we may fail, or be perceived to have failed, in the achievement of our ESG goals or that certain of our customers, associates, shareholders, investors, suppliers, business partners, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations might not be satisfied with our goals or our efforts toward achieving those goals.  Certain challenges we face in the achievement of our ESG objectives are also captured within our ESG reporting, which is not incorporated by reference into and does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A failure or perceived failure to meet our goals could adversely affect public perception of our business, associate morale or customer or shareholder support.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
...
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
United States
The Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments comprise the Company's operations in the U.S.  As of January 31, 2023, unit counts for Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club are summarized by format for each state and territory as follows:
Walmart U.S.
Sam's Club
State or Territory
Supercenters
Discount Stores
...
35
24
215
Hawaii
—
10
—
...
11
25
190
Indiana
97
6
11
...
34
14
138
Maine
19
3
—
...
1
8
71
New Mexico
35
2
9
...
80,351
782,076
28
International
The Walmart International segment comprises the Company's operations outside of the U.S.  Unit counts as of January 31, 2023
(1)
for Walmart International are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows:
Geographic Market
Retail
Wholesale
Total
Square feet
...
13
392
17,688
China
322
43
365
60,331
India
—
28
28
1,527
Mexico
2,694
168
2,862
106,412
International total
4,968
338
5,306
273,450
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2022, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2023.
(2)
Square feet reported in thousands.
(3)
Africa unit counts primarily reside in South Africa, with other locations in Botswana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zambia.
(4)
Central America unit counts reside in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31, 2023
(1)
:
Owned
Leased
(2)
Total
U.S. properties
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,057
660
4,717
Sam's Club retail units
513
87
600
Total U.S. retail units
4,570
747
5,317
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
110
53
163
Sam's Club distribution facilities
12
17
29
Total U.S. distribution facilities
122
70
192
...
4,692
817
5,509
International properties
Africa
33
342
...
205
187
392
China
2
363
365
India
2
26
28
Mexico
710
2,152
2,862
Total International retail units
1,456
3,850
5,306
International distribution facilities
23
165
188
Total International properties
1,479
4,015
5,494
...
6,171
4,832
11,003
Total retail units
6,026
4,597
10,623
Total distribution facilities
145
235
380
...
4,832
11,003
(1)
Walmart International properties, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2022, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2023.
(2)
Also includes U.S. and international distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
29
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses. For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
30
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," which is captioned "Contingencies," under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings."  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL"). The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes over 2,000 cases as of March 3, 2023. The liability phase of a single, two-county trial in one of the MDL cases against a number of parties, including the Company, regarding opioid dispensing claims resulted in a jury verdict on November 23, 2021, finding in favor of the plaintiffs as to the liability of all defendants, including the Company. The abatement phase of the single, two-county trial resulted in a judgment on August 17, 2022, that ordered all three defendants, including the Company, to pay an aggregate amount of approximately $651 million over fifteen years, on a joint and several liability basis, and granted the plaintiffs injunctive relief. The Company has filed an appeal with the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. The monetary aspect of the judgment is stayed pending appeal, and the injunctive portion of the judgment went into effect on February 20, 2023. The MDL has designated five additional single-county cases as bellwethers to proceed through discovery. In addition, there are over 300 other cases pending in state and federal courts throughout the country as of March 3, 2023. The case citations and currently scheduled trial dates, where applicable, are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
Opioid Settlement Framework:
On November 15, 2022, the Company announced that it had agreed to a Settlement Framework to resolve substantially all opioids-related lawsuits filed against the Company by states, political subdivisions, and Native American tribes (other than the single, two-county trial on appeal to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals as described above), as described in more detail in
Note
10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company now has settlement agreements with all 50 states, including four states that previously settled with the Company, as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and three other U.S. territories, that are intended to resolve substantially all opioids-related lawsuits brought by state and local governments against the Company. The settlement will take effect if a sufficient number of political subdivisions also join.
DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation:
A civil complaint pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware has been filed by the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") against the Company, in which the DOJ alleges violations of the Controlled Substances Act related to nationwide distribution and dispensing of opioids. U.S. v. Walmart Inc., et al., USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021. After the parties had fully briefed the Company's motion to dismiss, the DOJ filed an amended complaint on October 7, 2022. On November 7, 2022, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The motion remains pending.
Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation
: Three derivative complaints and two securities class actions drawing heavily on the allegations of the DOJ complaint have been filed in Delaware naming the Company and various current and former directors and certain current and former officers as defendants. The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of opioids dispensing and distribution and that the defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and are liable for contribution under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act in connection with the Company's disclosures about opioids. Two of the derivative suits have been filed in the U.S. District Court in Delaware and those suits have been stayed pending further developments in other opioids litigation matters. The other derivative suit has been filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The defendants in the derivative suit pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery moved to dismiss and/or to stay that case on December 21, 2021; the plaintiffs responded by filing an amended complaint on February 22, 2022. On April 20, 2022, the defendants moved to dismiss and/or stay proceedings on the amended complaint. The court held a hearing on that motion on September 26, 2022; a ruling remains pending. The securities class actions, alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act regarding the Company's disclosures with respect to opioids, purport to be filed on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016, through December 22, 2020. On May 11, 2021, the U.S. District Court in Delaware consolidated the class actions and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. The defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated securities class action on October 8, 2021. On October 14, 2022, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, which revised the applicable putative class of investors to those who acquired Walmart stock from March 31, 2017, through December 22, 2020. On November 16, 2022, the Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint. That motion remains pending.
Derivative Lawsuits:
Abt v. Alvarez et al.
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 2/9/21;
...
Dist. of DE, 3/5/21, consolidated into
In re Walmart Inc. Securities Litigation
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 5/11/21.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v. ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others – Manchester Employment Tribunal); Abbas & Others v Asda Stores limited (KB-2022-003243); and Abusubih & Others v Asda Stores limited (KB-2022-003240).
Money Transfer Agent Services Litigation:
Federal Trade Commission v. Walmart Inc. (CV-3372), USDC, N. Dist. Of Ill, 6/28/22.
II. CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS:
Foreign Direct Investment Matters:
In July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart Private Limited and one of its subsidiaries ("Flipkart"), and to unrelated companies and individuals, including certain current and former shareholders and directors of Flipkart. The notice requests the recipients to show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations (the "Rules") should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations during the period from 2009 to 2015, prior to the Company's acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018. The notice is an initial stage of proceedings under the Rules which could, depending upon the conclusions at the end of the initial stage, lead to a hearing to consider the merits of the allegations described in the notice. If a hearing is initiated and if it is determined that violations of the Rules occurred, the regulatory authority has the authority to impose monetary and/or non-monetary relief. Flipkart has begun the process of responding to the notice and, if the matter progresses to a consideration of the merits of the allegations described in the notice is initiated, Flipkart intends to defend against the allegations vigorously. Due to the fact that this process is in an early stage, the Company is unable to predict whether the notice will lead to a hearing on the merits or, if it does, the final outcome of the resulting proceedings. While the Company does not currently believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the notice, the amount of the proceeds the Company may receive in indemnification from individuals and entities that sold shares to the Company under the 2018 agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired its majority stake in Flipkart, and can provide no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its consolidated financial statements.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed an applied threshold not to exceed $1 million.
In December 2021, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of California filed suit against the Company, bringing enforcement claims regarding Walmart's management of waste consumer products at its California facilities that are alleged to be hazardous. The suit was filed in Superior Court of Alameda County, California, Case No. 21CV004367, People v. Walmart Inc., and a trial date has been scheduled for April 22, 2024. The Company believes the suit is without merit and is vigorously defending this litigation matter. While the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, the potential for penalties or settlement costs could exceed $1 million. Although the Company does not believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of this matter and no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its consolidated financial statements.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 15, 2023, there were 205,465 holders of record of Walmart's common stock.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2023 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2018 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2018
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2023
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2018
...
139.37
171.83
157.71
S&P 500 Retailing Index
100.00
108.42
127.45
...
195.77
160.10
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during the fiscal year prior to November 21, 2022 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2022.  In November 2022, the Company approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning on November 21, 2022, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of January 31, 2023, authorization for $19.3 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
33
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2023, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our flywheel strategy, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business.  Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.  Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.  Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
We have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our portfolio, primarily in the Walmart International segment, including the following highlights over the last three years:
•
In November 2020, we completed the sale of Walmart Argentina and recorded a pre-tax non-cash loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.0 billion, primarily due to cumulative foreign currency translation losses.  Refer to
Note 12
.
•
In February 2021, we completed the sale of Asda for net consideration of $9.6 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $5.5 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction. Refer to
Note 11
and
Note 12
.
•
In March 2021, we completed the sale of Seiyu for net consideration of $1.2 billion, for which we recognized an estimated pre-tax loss in fiscal 2021 of $1.9 billion, and an incremental loss of $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022 upon closing of the transaction.  Refer to
Note 12
.
•
In November 2022, we completed the buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary (Refer to
Note 3
) and in December 2022, we exited operations in certain countries in Africa.
•
In December 2022, we increased our ownership in PhonePe as part of the separation from our majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary.  Refer to
Note
3
.
We operate in a highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve.  We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce, health and wellness, financial services, advertising, and data service businesses.  Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce
35
presence.  We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates.  We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather and other risks related to climate change, global health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, disruptions in supply chain, inventory management, cost and availability of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, inflation, deflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor availability and costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low
costs. However, like other retail companies, we have seen supply chain disruptions contributing to higher than
normal inventory levels throughout the year. In addition, our merchandise costs for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 have been impacted by high inflation, greater than what we have experienced in recent years. The impact to our net sales and gross profit margin is influenced in part by our pricing and merchandising strategies in response to cost increases. Those pricing strategies include, but are not limited to: absorbing cost increases instead of passing those cost increases on to our customers and members; reducing prices in certain merchandise categories; focusing on opening price points for certain food categories; and when necessary, passing cost increases on to our customers and members. Merchandising strategies include, but are not limited to: working with our suppliers to reduce product costs and share in absorbing cost increases; focusing on private label brands and smaller pack sizes; earlier-than-usual purchasing and in greater volumes or moderating purchasing in certain categories; and securing ocean carrier and container capacity. These strategies have and may continue to impact gross profit as a percentage of net sales.
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to pressure from inflation; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; volatility in employment trends; supply chain pressures; and ongoing uncertainties related to global health epidemics or pandemics, any of which may impact our results.  For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Operations
" below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial framework as:
•
strong, efficient growth;
•
...
strategic capital allocation.
As we execute on this financial framework, we believe our returns on capital will improve over time.
Strong, Efficient Growth
Our objective of prioritizing strong, efficient growth means we will focus on the most productive growth opportunities, increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership at Sam's Club and through Walmart+, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expanding omni-channel initiatives that complement our flywheel strategy.  At times, we make strategic investments which are focused on the long-term growth of the Company.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar.
Calendar comparable sales, including the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2023 and 2022, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2023
2022
2023
2022
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
7.0%
6.4%
0.4%
0.3%
Sam's Club
14.6%
15.0%
4.2%
...
7.7%
1.0%
1.2%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 8.2% and 7.7% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 7.0% and 6.4% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  For
36
fiscal 2023, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions.  For fiscal 2022, comparable sales growth was driven driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which included strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% to comparable sales for both fiscal 2023 and 2022 as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Comparable sales at Sam's Club increased 14.6% and 15.0% in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  For fiscal 2023, Sam's Club comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and included higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories. Sam's Club comparable sales for fiscal 2022 benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and was aided by consumer spending due to government stimulus, and also included some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years.  The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales
positively
contributed approximately
0.8%
and 1.3% to comparable sales for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Consistent Operating Discipline
We operate with discipline by managing expenses, optimizing the efficiency of how we work and creating an environment in which we have sustainable lowest cost to serve.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs.  We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2023
2022
Net sales
$
605,881
$
...
%
1.3
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
21.0
%
20.8
%
For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were impacted by charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and charges of $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment.  These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs.
For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment.
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes improving our customer-facing initiatives in stores and clubs and creating a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.  As such, we continue to allocate more capital to supply chain, omni-channel initiatives, technology and store remodels and less to new store and club openings.  The following table provides additional detail:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2023
2022
Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives and technology
$
9,209
$
...
14,232
$
10,609
Walmart International
2,625
2,497
Total capital expenditures
$
16,857
$
13,106
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics
37
to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was 4.6% and 5.6% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The decrease in ROA was primarily due to the decrease in net income, which was driven by lower operating income, partially offset by lapping debt extinguishment charges
.
ROI was 12.7% and 14.9% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, which was primarily due to a decrease in operating income which included charges associated with opioid-related legal settlements as well as reorganization and restructuring expenses, all recorded in fiscal 2023.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI. As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; and adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.  Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2022
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
11,292
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
20,428
$
...
+ Rent
2,306
2,274
ROI operating income
$
33,933
$
...
2023
2022
2021
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
243,197
...
26,060
37,966
38
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.  Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See "
Liquidity and Capital Resources
" for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of $28.8 billion, $24.2 billion and $36.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of $12.0 billion, $11.1 billion and $25.8 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022. The increase is primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022 due to the increase in operating cash flows described above, partially offset by an increase of $3.8 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages. Free cash flow for fiscal 2022 decreased when compared to fiscal 2021 due to the same reasons as the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities, as well as $2.8 billion in increased capital expenditures.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2023
...
24,181
$
36,074
Payments for property and equipment
(16,857)
(13,106)
(10,264)
Free cash flow
$
11,984
$
...
(22,828)
(16,117)
(1)
"Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
39
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2023
2022
2021
Total revenues
$
611,289
$
...
%
6.7
%
Net sales
$
605,881
$
...
%
6.8
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
8.2
%
7.7
%
8.7
%
Gross profit rate
23.5
%
24.4
%
24.3
%
Operating income
$
20,428
$
25,942
$
22,548
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
3.4
%
4.6
%
4.1
%
Loss on extinguishment of debt
$
—
$
2,410
$
—
Other (gains) and losses
$
1,538
$
3,000
$
(210)
Consolidated net income
$
11,292
$
13,940
$
13,706
Unit counts at period end
(1)
10,623
10,593
11,443
Retail square feet at period end
(1)
1,056
1,060
1,121
(1)
Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end, and reflects the removal of stores in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to closing the divestitures in fiscal 2022.  Permanently closed locations are not included in these metrics.
Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased $38.5 billion or 6.7% and $13.6 billion or 2.4% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $38.1 billion or 6.7% and $12.5 billion or 2.3% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments which was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions, along with positive comparable sales in all of our international markets.  Additionally, net sales were negatively impacted by a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club which benefited from strong U.S. consumer spending and some inflation, along with positive comparable sales in most of our remaining international markets. The increase was partially offset by a $32.6 billion net sales decrease primarily related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Net sales also benefited from a $4.5 billion positive impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2022.
Our gross profit rate decreased 98 and increased 14 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily due to markdowns and merchandise mix in the U.S., higher supply chain costs and inflation related LIFO charges in the Sam's Club segment.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to price management in the Walmart U.S. segment driven by cost inflation as well as merchandise mix, partially offset by increased supply chain costs.
For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were impacted by charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and charges of $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment.  These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs.  For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 19 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from growth in comparable sales and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $2.5 billion as compared to the previous year, partially offset by increased wage investments primarily in the Walmart U.S. segment.
Loss on extinguishment of debt was $2.4 billion in fiscal 2022 due to the early retirement of certain higher rate long-term debt to reduce interest expense in future periods.
Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as the change in the fair value of our investments and gains or losses on business dispositions, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses consisted of a net loss of $1.5 billion and $3.0 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The net loss in fiscal 2023 primarily consists of: (a) net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity and other investments; (b) a gain of $0.4 billion recognized on the sale of our remaining equity method investment in Brazil; and (c) a $0.2 billion dividend from one of our investments.  The net loss in fiscal 2022 primarily consists of net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity investments, as well as $0.4 billion in incremental losses associated with the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.
40
Our effective income tax rate was 33.6% for fiscal 2023, 25.4% for fiscal 2022, and 33.3% for fiscal 2021, respectively.  The increase in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 is primarily due to the tax impact of the business reorganization resulting in the full separation of PhonePe from Flipkart. The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021 is primarily due to the $8.3 billion loss related to the divestiture of certain international operations classified as held for sale or sold in fiscal 2021, which provided minimal realizable tax benefit.  Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 is presented in
Note 9
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $11.3 billion and $13.9 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, which represents a decrease of $2.6 billion and an increase of $0.2 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $4.27, $4.87 and $4.75 for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2023
2022
2021
Net sales
$
420,553
$
...
%
8.5
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
7.0
%
6.4
%
8.7
%
Operating income
$
20,620
$
21,587
$
19,116
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.9
%
5.5
%
5.2
%
Unit counts at period end
4,717
4,742
4,743
Retail square feet at period end
702
703
703
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $27.3 billion or 6.9% and $23.3 billion or 6.3% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 7.0% and 6.4% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2023 were driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2022 were driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, which included strong consumer spending from government stimulus and some higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories compared to recent years.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 0.7% to comparable sales for both fiscal 2023 and 2022, as we continue to focus on a seamless omni-channel experience for our customers.
Gross profit rate decreased 85 basis points for fiscal 2023 and increased 51 basis points for fiscal 2022, when compared to the respective previous fiscal year.  The decrease in fiscal 2023 gross profit rate was primarily due to net markdowns and product mix shifts into lower margin categories and increased supply chain costs, partially offset by price management impacts driven by cost inflation.  Gross profit rate for fiscal 2022 benefited from price management driven by cost inflation as well as merchandise mix, which includes lapping the temporary closures of our Auto Care and Vision Centers and growth in our advertising business, partially offset by increased supply chain costs.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 25 basis points for fiscal 2023 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily driven by strong sales growth and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by increased wage costs.  For fiscal 2022, operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 31 basis points primarily due to investments in wages, partially offset by lower incremental COVID-19 related costs of $1.9 billion.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $1.0 billion and increased $2.5 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
41
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2023
2022
2021
Net sales
$
100,983
$
...
%
1.0
%
Operating income
$
2,965
$
3,758
$
3,660
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.9
%
3.7
%
3.0
%
Unit counts at period end
5,306
5,251
6,101
Retail square feet at period end
273
277
337
Net sales for the Walmart International segment were flat and decreased $20.4 billion or 16.8% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, net sales benefited from positive comparable sales in all of our international markets, offset by the impacts of a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, as well as $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023. For fiscal 2022, the reduction in net sales was driven by a $32.6 billion decrease primarily related to the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed during the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  This decrease was partially offset by positive comparable sales in most of our remaining markets, as well as positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $4.5 billion.
Gross profit rate decreased 50 basis points and 55 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily driven by continued growth in lower margin formats and channels in China and category mix shifts into lower margin categories.  For fiscal 2022, the decrease was primarily driven by shifts into lower margin formats and the impact related to our divested markets.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 41 basis points and decreased 71 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2023 was primarily due to business reorganization and restructuring charges incurred related to Flipkart and Massmart during the fourth quarter.  For fiscal 2022, the decrease was primarily due to impacts from the divested markets and $0.4 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales benefited from depreciation and amortization expense not having been recorded for our operations in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to their held for sale classification at the end of fiscal 2021 and prior to closing during the first quarter of fiscal 2022.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $0.8 billion and increased $0.1 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2023
2022
2021
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
84,345
$
...
%
8.7
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
14.6
%
15.0
%
8.7
%
Operating income
$
1,964
$
2,259
$
1,906
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.3
%
3.1
%
3.0
%
Unit counts at period end
600
600
599
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
71,665
$
...
%
12.1
%
Operating income
$
1,352
$
1,923
$
1,645
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
1.9
%
3.0
...
2.8
%
(1)
We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.  Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment.
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased $10.8 billion or 14.7% and $9.6 billion or 15.1% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales growth, including fuel, of 14.6%.  Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and included higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
0.8%
to comparable sales which was primarily driven by ship to home and curbside pickup.  For fiscal 2022, the increase was primarily due to comparable sales growth, including fuel, of 15.0%. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket due to increased consumer spending, which was aided by government stimulus, and also includes some
42
higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories. The growth in comparable sales was partially offset by our decision to remove tobacco from certain club locations. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 1.3% to comparable sales.
Gross profit rate decreased 155 basis points and 68 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to inventory write-downs, elevated supply chain and eCommerce fulfillment costs and inflation related LIFO charges.  For fiscal
2022
, gross profit rate decreased primarily due to increased fuel sales which have lower margins, cost inflation, and higher supply chain costs, partially offset by favorable sales mix, including reduced tobacco sales.
Membership and other income increased 7.0% and 13.1% for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2023 and 2022, the increase was primarily due to increases in new member sign-ups and Plus member penetration.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 97 basis points and 82 basis points for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Fiscal 2023 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales.  Fiscal 2022 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales as well as a benefit from $0.2 billion of lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by reduced tobacco sales.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $0.3 billion and increased $0.4 billion for fiscal
2023 and
2022, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity.  Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations.  Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.  We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our global investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
24,181
$
36,074
Net cash provided by operating activities was $28.8 billion, $24.2 billion and $36.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments.  The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2022, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in inventory costs and purchases to support strong sales and lapping the impact of accelerated inventory sell-through in fiscal 2021, as well as timing and payment of wages.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $8.6 billion and $14.8 billion as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $16.5 billion and $6.3 billion as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in our working capital deficit is primarily driven by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and an increase in accrued liabilities.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. We do not expect current local laws, other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2023 and 2022, cash and cash equivalents of $2.9 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
43
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
(10,071)
Net cash used in investing activities was
$17.7 billion
, $6.0 billion and $10.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and generally consisted of capital expenditures.  Net cash used in investing activities increased
$11.7 billion for fiscal 2023 when
compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to the result of lapping the net proceeds received from the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan and an increase in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.  Net cash used in investing activities decreased $4.1 billion for fiscal 2022 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the net proceeds received from the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, partially offset by increased capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures
Refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2023 and 2022.  For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $17 billion to $18 billion, with a focus on technology, supply chain, and customer-facing initiatives.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(22,828)
$
(16,117)
Net cash from financing activities generally consists of debt transactions, dividends paid, repurchases of Company stock and transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders.  Fiscal 2023 net cash used in financing activities decreased
$5.8 billion
when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease is primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes in the prior fiscal period, partially offset by the equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock in the prior fiscal period.  Fiscal 2022 net cash used in financing activities increased $6.7 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increase was primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes, as well as increased share repurchases, partially offset by long-term debt issuances and equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock.
Purchase and Sale of Subsidiary Stoc
k
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the Company completed a $0.4 billion buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of the Company's Massmart subsidiary. This transaction increased the Company's ownership of Massmart from approximately 53% to 100%.  Additionally, the Company completed a $0.4 billion acquisition of Alert Innovation, which was previously consolidated as a variable interest entity and resulted in the Company becoming a 100% owner.
During fiscal 2022, the Company received $3.2 billion primarily related to a new equity funding for the Company's majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary, which reduced the Company's ownership from approximately 83% as of January 31, 2021 to approximately 75%.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to the Company's short-term borrowings for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2023
...
716
$
4,048
Average daily short-term borrowings
7,250
626
1,577
...
%
3.1
%
Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2023 and 2022 were $0.4 billion, with weighted-average interest rates of 6.6% and 2.9%, respectively.  We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2023 that provide additional liquidity, if needed.  Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
As of January 31, 2023, we have $2.1 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.8 billion was drawn and represents an unrecorded current obligation.
44
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2023:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2022
$
...
34,864
$
37,667
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
5,041
5,041
Repayments of long-term debt
(2,689)
—
(2,689)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
4,197
(4,197)
—
...
34,649
$
38,840
Our total outstanding long-term debt increased $1.2 billion during fiscal 2023, primarily due to the issuance of new long-term debt in September 2022, partially offset by the maturities of certain long-term debt.  Refer to
Note 6
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the issuances of long-term debt.
Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $18.8 billion, with approximately $1.7 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2024.  Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2023 and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments.
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were
$6.1 billion
, $6.2 billion and $6.1 billion for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Effective February 21, 2023, the Company approved the fiscal 2024 annual dividend of $2.28 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2023 annual dividend of $2.24 per share.  For fiscal 2024, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.57 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date
Payable Date
March 17, 2023
...
September 5, 2023
December 8, 2023
January 2, 2024
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during the fiscal year prior to November 21, 2022 were made under the plan in effect at the beginning of fiscal 2022.  In November 2022, the Company approved a new $20.0 billion share repurchase program which, beginning on November 21, 2022, replaced the previous share repurchase program.  As of January 31, 2023, authorization for $
19.3 billion
of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2023
2022
2021
...
73.9
69.7
19.4
Average price paid per share
$
134.17
$
140.45
$
135.20
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
9,920
$
...
$
2,625
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations.  Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include opioid and other legal settlements, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, purchases of subsidiary stock and purchase obligations.  See
Note 3
,
Note 6
and
Note 7
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding purchase of subsidiary stock, outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively.
45
As of January 31, 2023, the Company has $33.3 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $11.6 billion is due within one year.  Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above.  Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  As of January 31, 2023, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
46
Other Matters
In
...
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in
Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," we discuss, under the sub-captions "
Settlement Framework Regarding Multidistrict and State or Local Opioid Related Litigation
," and "
Other Opioid Related Litigation
" the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom.  In that
Note 10
, we also discuss under the sub-caption "
Asda Equal Value Claims"
the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter as well as under the sub-caption "
Money Transfer Agent Services Matters
", a United States Federal Trade Commission complaint related to money transfers and the Company's anti-fraud program and a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services.  We discuss various legal proceedings related to the Federal and State Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation and Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "I. Supplemental Information." We also discuss items related to the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, the Money Transfer Agent Services Matters and the Foreign Direct Investment matters in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "II. Certain Other Matters."  We also discuss an environmental matter with the State of California in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "III. Environmental Matters."  The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies including how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Inventories
The Walmart U.S. segment comprises the largest portion of our inventory and is primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method.  The majority of the Sam's Club segment inventories are accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method. When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year-end.  As a measure of sensitivity, an incremental 1% inflationary impact to the cost of our inventory purchases would not have resulted in a material increase to the LIFO provision recorded during fiscal 2023.
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset.  Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives.  Indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired.  Generally, this evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative impairment test is necessary.  If we determine, after performing an assessment based on qualitative factors, that the fair value of the indefinite-lived acquired intangible asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, then a quantitative impairment test would be performed.  The quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates and economic and market conditions.  Our indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets have historically generated sufficient returns to recover their cost.  Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of
47
amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made.  Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Income Taxes
Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings.  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our effective income tax rate is affected by many factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, increases and decreases in valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations where the statutory rates are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate, and may fluctuate as a result.
Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  This determination requires the use of judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years.  Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. This evaluation relies on estimates.
As guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair values of certain equity and equity method investments measured on a recurring basis.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal 2023, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps decreased $0.6 billion primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2023.
48
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
372
...
%
6.6
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
2.7
%
(1)
Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2023, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 21% of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on January 31, 2023 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $0.1 billion.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments and operations in countries other than the U.S., as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt.  For fiscal 2023, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $1.1 billion net loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion as of January 31, 2023 and January 31, 2022, respectively.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain currencies in fiscal 2023.  The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.7 billion.  A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2023 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.1 billion.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to investment risk primarily related to changes in the fair value of equity securities, as well as certain immaterial equity method investments where we have elected the fair value option measured on a recurring basis.  These changes in fair value are recorded within other gains and losses and resulted in a loss of $1.7 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to net decreases in the underlying stock prices of those investments.  As of January 31, 2023, the fair value of our equity investments, including certain equity method investments, measured on a recurring basis was $10.7 billion.  As of January 31, 2023, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $1.1 billion.
49
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023
Table of Contents
...
55
Consolidated Balance Sheets
56
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
57
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
58
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
59
50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements").  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2023, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 17, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2023, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and regulatory matters.  The Company records a liability for those legal proceedings and regulatory matters when management determines it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  The Company also discloses when it is reasonably possible that a material loss may be incurred.  In assessing the probability of occurrence and whether an estimate of loss can be reasonably estimated for a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment on matters relevant to each proceeding, such as whether sufficient participation in settlement proceedings will occur, or whether it can predict the number of claims that may be filed.  For example, management exercised judgment in accruing a liability for approximately $3.3 billion for the Settlement Framework and other previously agreed state and tribal settlements regarding opioid-related lawsuits. Auditing management's accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of occurrence for contingencies or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
51
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies. For example, we tested controls over the Company's assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company's determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company's assessment of the probability of occurrence or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the board of directors and committees of the board of directors, reviewed documents provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and outside legal counsel, and evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal and outside legal counsel. As part of this assessment, we evaluated management's assumptions and calculations by, among other things, comparing those assumptions to key terms in the Settlement Framework and to payments made during the year. We also assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures.
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
...
March 17, 2023
52
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2023, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. as of January 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2023, and the related notes and our report dated March 17, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2023
2022
2021
Revenues:
Net sales
$
605,881
$
567,762
$
555,233
Membership and other income
5,408
4,992
3,918
Total revenues
611,289
572,754
559,151
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
463,721
429,000
420,315
...
127,140
117,812
116,288
Operating income
20,428
25,942
22,548
Interest:
Debt
1,787
1,674
1,976
Finance lease
341
320
339
...
1,874
1,836
2,194
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
2,410
—
Other (gains) and losses
1,538
3,000
(
210
)
Income before income taxes
17,016
18,696
20,564
Provision for income taxes
5,724
4,756
6,858
Consolidated net income
11,292
13,940
13,706
...
(
196
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
11,680
$
13,673
$
13,510
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
4.29
$
4.90
$
4.77
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
4.27
4.87
4.75
...
2,724
2,792
2,831
Diluted
2,734
2,805
2,847
Dividends declared per common share
$
2.24
$
...
2023
2022
2021
Consolidated net income
$
11,292
$
...
(
196
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
11,680
13,673
13,510
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
(
1,858
...
(
221
)
Cash flow hedges
(
203
)
...
(
30
)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
(
2,056
)
...
)
3,000
1,039
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
9,236
16,710
14,532
...
Inventories
56,576
56,511
Prepaid expenses and other
2,521
1,519
Total current assets
75,655
81,070
Property and equipment, net
100,760
94,515
Operating lease right-of-use assets
13,555
13,758
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
4,919
4,351
Goodwill
28,174
29,014
Other long-term assets
...
244,860
LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST, AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
372
$
...
Accrued liabilities
31,126
26,060
Accrued income taxes
727
851
Long-term debt due within one year
4,191
2,803
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,473
1,483
Finance lease obligations due within one year
567
511
Total current liabilities
92,198
87,379
Long-term debt
34,649
34,864
Long-term operating lease obligations
12,828
13,009
Long-term finance lease obligations
4,843
4,243
Deferred income taxes and other
14,688
13,474
Commitments and contingencies
...
Capital in excess of par value
4,969
4,839
Retained earnings
83,135
86,904
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
8,766
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
76,693
83,253
Noncontrolling interest
...
See accompanying notes.
56
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Total
Shares
...
6,883
$
81,552
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,510
196
13,706
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
213
)
826
Cash dividends declared ($
2.16
per share)
—
...
(
2,658
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
80,925
6,606
87,531
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,673
267
13,940
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
230
)
2,770
Cash dividends declared ($
2.20
per share)
—
...
(
9,808
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
83,253
8,638
91,891
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
388
)
11,292
Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
2,056
)
Cash dividends declared ($
2.24
per share)
—
...
(
9,866
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
57
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2023
2022
2021
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
11,292
$
13,940
$
13,706
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
10,945
10,658
11,152
Net unrealized and realized (gains) and losses
1,683
2,440
(
...
—
433
8,401
Deferred income taxes
449
(
755
)
1,911
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
2,410
—
...
1,919
1,652
1,521
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
240
(
...
4,393
1,404
4,623
Accrued income taxes
(
127
)
...
28,841
24,181
36,074
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
16,857
)
...
(
10,264
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
170
394
215
Proceeds from disposal of certain operations, net of divested cash
—
7,935
56
...
(
10,071
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
(
34
)
...
(
324
)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
5,041
6,945
—
Repayments of long-term debt
(
2,689
)
...
(
5,382
)
Premiums paid to extinguish debt
—
(
2,317
)
—
Dividends paid
(
6,114
)
...
(
2,625
)
Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(
444
)
...
14,834
$
17,788
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid
$
3,310
$
5,918
$
5,271
Interest paid
2,051
2,237
2,216
...
Note 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart" or the "Company") people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to help people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, the Company is striving to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for its customers.
The Company's operations comprise
three
reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") and January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021").  Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  The Company consolidates variable interest entities where it has been determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of those entities' operations.  Investments in common stock or in-substance common stock for which the Company exercises significant influence but does not have control are accounted for under the equity method.  These variable interest entities and equity method investments are immaterial to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for the United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  The Company consolidates all other operations generally using a one-month lag and based on a calendar year.  There were no significant intervening events during the month of January 2023 related to the operations consolidated using a lag that materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Use of Estimates
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.  Management's estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers investments with a maturity when purchased of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  All credit card, debit card and electronic transfer transactions that process in less than seven days are classified as cash and cash equivalents.  The amounts due from banks for these transactions classified as cash and cash equivalents totaled $
2.0
...
62
% and
50
% were held outside of the U.S., respectively.  Cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company's non-U.S. operations.
The Company uses intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.
As of January 31, 2023 and 2022, cash and cash equivalents of approximately $
2.9
billion and $
4.3
billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws, other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
Receivables
Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts, and are primarily due from the following: customers, which includes pharmacy insurance companies as well as advertisers, and banks for customer credit, debit cards and electronic transfer transactions that take in excess of seven days to process; suppliers for marketing or incentive programs; governments for income taxes; and real estate transactions.
As of January 31, 2023 and January 31, 2022, net receivables from transactions with customers were $
3.7
billion and $
...
billion, respectively.
59
Inventories
The Company utilizes various inventory methods to account for and value its inventories depending upon the nature of the store formats and businesses in each of its segments, resulting in inventories that are recorded at the lower of cost or market or net realizable value, as appropriate.
•
Walmart U.S. Segment - Inventories are primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting ("RIM") to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method.  RIM generally results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market as permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.
•
Walmart International Segment – Depending on the store format in each market, inventories are generally accounted for using either the RIM or weighted-average cost method, using the first-in, first-out valuation method.
•
Sam's Club Segment - The majority of this segment's inventory is accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.
For those segments that utilize the LIFO method, the Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation.  These estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end for inflation or deflation and inventory levels.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are initially recorded at cost.  Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred.  Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances and includes the estimated useful lives that are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
Estimated Useful Lives
As of January 31,
(Dollars in millions)
...
N/A
10,802
7,199
Property and equipment
202,370
189,324
Accumulated depreciation
...
(
94,809
)
Property and equipment, net
$
100,760
[Total relevant lines: 4576]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2023 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2024-03-15.html)
================================================================================
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2024-01-31
wmt:segment
0000104169
us-gaap:SubsequentEventMember
2024-02-23
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
srt:MaximumMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:PhonePeMember
...
wmt:PhonePeMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RestrictedStockMember
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedForeignCurrencyAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:AccumulatedNetInvestmentGainOrLossIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossCashFlowHedgeIncludingNoncontrollingInterestMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedDefinedBenefitPlansAdjustmentIncludingPortionAttributableToNoncontrollingInterestMember
...
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingMember
...
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:DenominatedYenMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4000DebtDue2026Member
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4000DebtDue2026Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2028Member
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2028Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4100DebtDue2033Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4100DebtDue2033Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4500DebtDue2053Member
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A4500DebtDue2053Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2025Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3900DebtDue2025Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3950DebtDue2027Member
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
wmt:A3950DebtDue2027Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4150DebtDue2032Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:A4150DebtDue2032Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4500DebtDue2052Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2022-09-09
0000104169
wmt:A4500DebtDue2052Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2550DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-04-11
0000104169
wmt:A2550DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2023-06-26
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-04-08
iso4217:EUR
0000104169
wmt:A1900DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A0183DebtDue2022Member
2022-07-15
iso4217:JPY
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
wmt:A0183DebtDue2022Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2350DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-12-15
0000104169
wmt:A2350DebtDue2022Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsNonrecurringMember
2021-02-01
2021-04-30
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2044Member
...
2023-10-25
wmt:case
0000104169
wmt:CanadaOpioidsClassActionComplaintsMember
2024-01-31
wmt:classAction
wmt:securitiesClassAction
wmt:shareholder
0000104169
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
2021-09-27
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
country:US
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:GroceryMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:GroceryMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:GroceryMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartUSMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
country:CA
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:GB
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
wmt:OtherMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:GroceryandconsumablesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:FueltobaccoandothercategoriesMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubMember
wmt:TechnologyofficesandentertainmentMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubMember
2021-02-01
2022-01-31
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2023, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2023, was $
228,694,206,501
.  For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2024 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
15
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
48
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
50
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
82
Item 11
Executive Compensation
82
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
82
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
82
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2024
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 5, 2024 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
On February 23, 2024, the Company effected a 3-for-1 forward split of its common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of authorized shares. All share and per share information, including share based compensation, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Exchange Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals.  These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
macroeconomic, geopolitical, and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which we operate, including inflation or deflation, generally, and in certain product categories, the impact of supply chain challenges, and recessionary pressures;
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future, or in or over particular periods, both generally, and with respect to particular markets, segments or lines of business, including, but not limited to, advertising, fulfillment, healthcare and financial services;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, growth rates, comparable store and club sales, our eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store and club openings, inventory levels and associated costs, product mix and demand for certain merchandise, consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns and debt levels;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, automation, supply chain, new stores and clubs as well as remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our workforce strategy, including the availability of necessary personnel to staff our stores, clubs and other facilities and the potential impact of changes to the costs of labor;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our consolidated, or one or more of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets or credit will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
4
•
the adoption or creation of new, and modification of existing, governmental policies, programs, initiatives and actions in the markets in which we operate and elsewhere and actions with respect to such policies, programs and initiatives (including, but not limited to, changes in the enforcement priorities of regulatory authorities);
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on our results of operations or financial position of our adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make.  The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "should," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made.  As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein.  We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect.  We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.  We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings.  Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers.  Each week, we serve approximately 255 million customers who visit more than 10,500 stores and numerous eCommerce websites in 19 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage.  Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time.  By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP").  EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.  Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis.  Our discussion is as of, and for the fiscal years ended, January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023") and January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022").  During fiscal 2024, we generated total revenues of $648.1 billion, which was comprised primarily of net sales of $642.6 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas.  Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.  In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri.  Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores, at which time we began to open discount stores. We completed our initial public offering in 1970.  In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter.  In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market.  In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2024, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 18 countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com.  Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow.  In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site-to-Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores.  To date, we now have over 8,000 pickup and over 7,800 delivery locations globally.  In recent years, we expanded our eCommerce and digital presence through acquisitions with our majority stakes in Flipkart and PhonePe in India.  We continue to heavily invest in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, which enables us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, and expand our assortment and service offerings.
We are enhancing our omni-channel capabilities through a combination of stores, eCommerce websites and service offerings, as well as our supply chain, combined with approximately 2.1 million associates as of January 31, 2024, to better serve our customers.  Together, these elements produce a global retail ecosystem that we believe allows customers to view Walmart as their primary retail destination.  In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members.  As we execute on our strategy globally, our business is expanding through offerings such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, healthcare and financial services.  These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our omni-channel model centered on our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
6
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.  We also previously operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures.  Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below.  Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently.  However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to the exit of certain markets and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in
Note 13
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, including walmart.com.  Walmart U.S. had net sales of $441.8 billion for fiscal 2024, representing 69% of our fiscal 2024 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $420.6 billion and $393.2 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate").  In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, in-home delivery, ship-from-store and digital pharmacy fulfillment options.  As of January 31, 2024, the vast majority of our stores have
pickup locations and more than
4,300
locations offer
same-day delivery.  Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits including unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, mobile Scan & Go and access to additional member benefits.  We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores, as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our ecosystem, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business.  The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2024:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise.
Walmart U.S. does business primarily in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli & bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Fashion (e.g., apparel for adults and children, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed & bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and other clinical services.
Other categories in the Walmart U.S. business include fuel and various service offerings such as in-house advertising via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, initiatives such as business-to-business last mile delivery services via Walmart GoLocal, and a suite of data products for merchants and suppliers via Walmart Luminate.
Additional service offerings include financial services and related products (including through our digital channels, stores and our fintech venture, ONE), such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment and certain types of installment lending.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S.  We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Equate," "Free Assembly,"
7
"Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation."  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Better Homes & Gardens," "Love & Sports," "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara," and "The Pioneer Woman."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units.  When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations.
Walmart U.S. is available to customers through supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day.  Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Walmart U.S. competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, social commerce platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers and greater brand recognition.  They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise and selection availability, services offered to customers, the quality of the products and services we offer, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.  We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry.  These strategies include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and
•
Expanding our ecosystem and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services to provide our customers a broader set of offerings to meet expanding needs.
Distribution.
We continue to invest in supply chain automation and utilize a total of 162 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S.  For fiscal 2024, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers.  General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 30 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship or deliver directly from more tha
n
4,300
s
tores, some of which include market fulfillment centers, which are positioned inside or attached to our stores to fill online orders more efficiently.
8
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operates in 18 countries outside of the U.S.  Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, China, and Africa (which includes Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, and Zambia), and our majority-owned subsidiaries in India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Walmart International previously operated in the United Kingdom and Japan prior to the sale of those operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2022.  Refer to
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recent divestitures.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale.  These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through websites and mobile applications, including walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com, PhonePe and other sites.  Walmart International had net sales of $114.6 billion for fiscal 2024, representing 18% of our fiscal 2024 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $101.0 billion for both fiscal 2023 and 2022.  The gross profit rate is slightly lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its format and channel mix.
Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart, which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates.  We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.  As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Divested of Asda Group Limited ("Asda"), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021.
•
Divested of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021.
•
Bought out the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary in November 2022 and exited operations in certain countries in Africa.
•
Increased our ownership in PhonePe, our digital payments platform in India, as part of the separation from Flipkart in December 2022.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets and our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India.  Our financial services offerings continue to grow with our digital payment platform at PhonePe in India.  We continue to expand our marketplace offerings, which also unlock fulfillment and advertising services.
Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet.  Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 25,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet.  As of January 31, 2024, Walmart International had over 2,800 pickup and over 2,900 delivery locations.
Merchandise.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale.  While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items.  Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera" and "Lider."  In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to build mutually reinforcing businesses in areas such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, healthcare and financial services.  Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India continues to grow, providing a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising.  In Mexico, we also offer a value-based internet and telephone service allowing customers to enjoy digital connectivity.  Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations.
The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Customers can also access online and mobile applications 24 hours a day. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to develop technology tools and services to better serve customers and help its various formats operate more efficiently, as well as to provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.  The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns.
9
Competition.
Walmart International competes with brick and mortar, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and direct to consumer offerings, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment services, health and wellness and financial services.  Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.  We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to progress our markets towards an EDLP approach.  Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in many of the markets where we operate.  Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new or well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition.  Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers and greater brand recognition and therefore they may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 176 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and Africa. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment.  During fiscal 2024, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities.  Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate.  Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers, which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live.  We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations, such as in India where we utilize a combination of more than 3,500 eCommerce fulfillment centers, sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities, as well as our physical retail stores.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com.  Sam's Club had net sales of $86.2 billion for fiscal 2024, representing 13% of our consolidated fiscal 2024 net sales, and had net sales of $84.3 billion and $73.6 billion for fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively.  As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.  Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$110
$50
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. Plus Members are also eligible for free curbside pickup and free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.  Beginning in fiscal 2023, Sam's Club launched a single loyalty rewards currency called Sam's Cash which merges and replaces existing Cash Rewards for Plus members and Cash Back for Sam's Club Mastercard holders.  Members may redeem Sam's Cash on purchases in the club and online, to pay for membership fees or for cash in clubs.  Sam's Cash does not expire and is available for monthly redemption.
Omni-channel.
Sam's Club provides an omni-channel experience to members, integrating warehouse clubs and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan & Go, ship-from-club, and delivery-from-club.  Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications.  The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•
Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
Fuel, tobacco and other categories;
•
Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and tire and battery centers;
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs; and
10
•
Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances and third-party gift cards.
Within the categories above, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand its assortment and deliver member value.
Operations.
Sam's Club is available to members through warehouse club locations, as well as online or through the mobile application 24 hours a day.  Club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before regular operating hours.  Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience.  Curbside Pickup is available at clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members.
Sam's Club also offers Scan & Go, a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns.  Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31.
Competition.
Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses.  At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members.  Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete.
Distribution.
We utilize 30 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., as well as some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items.  During fiscal 2024, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from these facilities, while the remainder of our purchases were shipped directly to Sam's Club locations by suppliers.  Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 15 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport perishable and non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent laws, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights.  We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights.  Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online.  In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category.  Consistent with applicable laws, we offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers.  Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws.  Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions.  For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks."
11
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Priorities
Our ESG strategy is centered on the concept of creating shared value: we believe we maximize long-term value and create competitive advantage for the Company by serving our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, business partners and communities. We believe that addressing such societal needs builds the value of our business, including by enhancing customer and associate trust, creating new business opportunities, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future advantage and strengthening the underlying systems on which Walmart and our stakeholders rely.
We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create shared value: issues that rank high in relevance to our business and stakeholders and which Walmart is positioned to make a positive impact. Our current ESG priorities are categorized into four broad themes: opportunity, sustainability, community and ethics and integrity.
•
Opportunity
.  Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive economic opportunity. We aim to advance belonging, diversity, equity and inclusion, and create opportunity for Walmart associates (as further described in the Human Capital Management section below), our suppliers and workers in supply chains, and the communities in which we operate. Doing so helps us fulfill our customer mission, strengthens our business and helps people build a better life for themselves and their families.
•
Sustainability
. Walmart's sustainability efforts focus on our ability to create and preserve long-term value for both people and planet. With respect to people, our sustainability efforts include sourcing responsibly, helping prevent forced labor, empowering women, creating inclusive economic opportunity and selling safer, healthier products. With respect to the planet, our efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains by reducing emissions, protecting and restoring nature and reducing waste. To help address the effects of climate change, Walmart has set science-based targets for emissions reduction, including our goal to achieve zero emissions in our operations by 2040—without offsets—and to reduce, avoid or sequester one billion metric tons of emissions in our value chain by 2030 under our Project Gigaton initiative.
•
Community
. Walmart aims to serve and strengthen communities
by operating our business in a way that meets the needs of our customer and community stakeholder groups, including by providing safer, healthier and more affordable food and other products, disaster support, associate volunteerism, local grant programs and community cohesion initiatives.
•
Ethics and Integrity
.
At every level of our Company, we work to create a culture that inspires trust among our associates, with our customers and in the communities we serve
.
We periodically publish information on our ESG priorities, strategies and progress on our corporate website and may update those disclosures from time to time. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC.
Human Capital Management
Our associates – powered by technology – play a critical role in delivering on our purpose to help people save money and live better.  Our business is focused on serving people and this is delivered by our approximately 2.1 million associates around the world with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.5 million associates internationally.  In the U.S., approximately 92% of our associates are hourly and approximately 69% of our associates are full-time.
We believe our people make the difference, and we are focused on investing in the growth and well-being of our associates, investing in digital experiences to improve their quality of work and creating a culture of belonging.  An important part of our focus is to provide opportunities for associates to grow and learn.  For some, we are a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers.  We are focused on developing, rewarding and retaining associates in an ever-changing environment.  Our people ultimately make Walmart a better place to work and a better place to shop. Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities: belonging, well-being, growth and digital.
Belonging
-
Focus on creating a workplace where all associates feel seen, supported and connected through a culture of belonging.
We publish our diversity representation twice yearly and hold ourselves accountable to providing recurring belonging, diversity, equity and inclusion updates to senior leadership – including our President and CEO – and members of the Board of Directors.  Of the approximately 2.1 million associates employed worldwide, 52% identify as women.  In the U.S., 51% of the approximately 1.6 million associates identify as people of color.
Our Belonging programs aim to create equitable opportunities for everyone, regardless of background, so that every eligible and qualified individual can thrive and perform. We regularly review our processes around fair-pay practices and are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance and the work they do.
12
To build a company where associates feel seen, supported and connected, we gather and respond to associate feedback in a variety of ways, including in-person dialogue; real-time digital insights such as pulse surveys; formal surveys like our associate engagement survey; and always-on confidential channels, including our Open Door process and ethics channels.
Well-being
-
Prioritize the emotional, physical and financial well-being of associates.
We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages, as well as a broad range of benefits to meet the diverse needs of our global associate population and their eligible dependents.  In the U.S., this includes company-paid benefits such as 401(k) match, family building support, maternity leave, fertility benefits, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance, behavioral and mental health services, a Walmart discount card or Sam's Club membership and predictable scheduling that helps associates plan for life outside of work and know what to expect in their paychecks.
Additional information about how we invest in our associates' well-being, including wage structure and pay, can be found in our Human Capital brief in our most recent ESG reporting, which is available on our corporate website.  Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC.  Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Growth
-
Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills.
We are invested in the growth of our associates – in support of our business and their success – by offering good jobs that lead to great careers and better lives.
Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions.  Our focus on providing a path of opportunity for our associates through robust training, competitive wages and benefits and career advancement creates a strong associate value proposition and strengthens our workforce.  In the U.S., we seek to enable these pathways through programs like Walmart Academy and Live Better U (LBU). Walmart Academy offers training for on-the-job retail skills, leadership and well-being, serving our associates through a combination of digital and in-person offerings. Additionally, our LBU program provides access to educational opportunities for our part-time and full-time frontline eligible associates in the U.S. through high school diplomas, short-form certificates and credentials or college degrees.
Digital
-
Drive a digital transformation that improves the associate experience and powers the business
.  To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in consumer-grade digital tools designed to improve associate productivity and efficiency, engagement and performance, allowing associates to spend more time generating new ideas, developing strategy and building relationships. This capability has been expanded to certain international markets.
Technology is also used to improve associate experience, including an app developed to capture real-time associate feedback. Walmart also supports associates on the U.S. Medical Plan with free virtual visits for medical doctor urgent care and mental health care with psychiatrists and psychologists.
13
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by, and serves at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors.  The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
52
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018.  From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.
2018
50
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017.  From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
54
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.
2019
49
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC.
2019
59
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective August 2023. From 2019 to 2023, she served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain.
2023
50
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
57
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020.  From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
56
Christopher Nicholas
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club effective September 2023.
From October 2021 to September 2023, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S. From February 2021 until October 2021, he served as Executive Vice President,  Chief Financial Officer Walmart U.S.  From January 2020 until February 2021, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Walmart International.  He joined the Company in August 2018 as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Walmart International.
2023
47
John David Rainey
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 2022.  From September 2015 to June 2022, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations for PayPal Holdings, Inc.
2022
53
14
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com.  We file with, or furnish to, the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents.  The reports and other documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com.  These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section.  Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, including the use of artificial intelligence technology, talent, supply chain automation, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings and sustain the current pace of remodels.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and interconnected ecosystem for our customers that deepens and maintains our relationships with our customers across our various businesses and partnerships and reinforces our overall enterprise strategy. The success of this strategy is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
.  With the interconnected components of this enterprise strategy and an increasing allocation of capital expenditures focused on these initiatives, changes in customer or member perceptions about our reputation or our failure to successfully execute on individual components of this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance, which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain investments in eCommerce, technology, talent and automation, including any operating losses incurred for those initiatives, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns, tastes and preferences.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and services and the competitive environment. Our business is dependent on our ability to make critical decisions and predictions with respect to merchandise categories that quickly respond to changing consumer spending patterns, tastes and preferences, any incorrect calculations by us may result in lower sales, spoilage and inventory markdowns, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to predict and adapt to changing tastes and preferences depends on many factors, including obtaining accurate and
15
relevant data on customer preferences, emphasizing relevant merchandise categories, effectively managing our inventory levels, and implementing competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  We must continue to preserve our reputation, which is impacted based on public perceptions. It may be difficult to address negative publicity across media channels, regardless of whether it is accurate.  Negative incidents involving us, our workforce (including the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft) or others with whom we do business could quickly erode trust and confidence in our business and could result in consumer boycotts, workforce unrest and government investigations. Negative reputational incidents or negative perceptions of us could adversely impact our business and results of operations, including through lower sales, the termination of business relationships and associate retention and recruiting efforts. Moreover, failure to adequately predict customer demand and consumer spending patterns or otherwise optimize and operate our distribution and fulfillment centers could result in excess or insufficient inventory, service interruptions and increased costs, any of which could significantly harm our business. As we continue to add new fulfillment centers, our fulfillment and technology networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our networks effectively.
We face strong competition from other retailers, wholesale club operators, omni-channel retailers and other businesses which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, social commerce platforms, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services.  The omni-channel retail landscape is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and the entry of new, well-funded competitors may increase competitive pressures.  In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail and other markets in which we operate, omni-channel innovations and omni-channel ecosystems developed by our competitors or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, consolidation or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, competitive omni-channel ecosystems or reductions in operations may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could allow these companies to provide a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S., or in any of the other markets in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales, growth rates, operating income and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, including energy prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and
16
other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale, or adversely impact product margins due to higher labor and material costs of our suppliers that we are unable, or choose not, to pass on to our customers.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business.  These arrangements (such as ONE, our fintech venture, and our healthcare initiative with UnitedHealth Group) may not generate the level of sales or profitability we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
Global or regional health pandemics or epidemics, such as COVID-19, could negatively impact our business, financial position and results of operations.
The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional pandemics, epidemics or other health crises are uncertain and difficult to predict.  A pandemic, such as COVID-19, or other epidemic or contagious disease outbreak could impact our business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, the extent and duration of measures to try to contain the spread of a virus or other disease (such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, limitations on large gatherings, business and government shutdowns and other restrictions on retailers), our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation and our financial performance, among other things.  In the event of any global or regional health crisis, customer demand for certain products may fluctuate, customer behaviors may change and consumer disposable income could be negatively impacted, which may challenge our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand.  Other factors and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to: the severity and duration of pandemics, epidemics or other health crises, including disease outbreaks in areas in which we and our suppliers operate; increased operational costs; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates and recessionary pressures; unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time, capital and other resources to a pandemic or other health crisis response; the effectiveness and extent of administration of vaccinations and medical treatments; the pace of recovery when any such pandemic or other health crisis subsides; and the long-term impact of a pandemic or other health crisis on our business, including consumer behaviors.  These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
To the extent that a future pandemic or epidemic occurs, such events may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, catastrophic and other events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; geopolitical tensions or events; and catastrophic and other events, such as war, civil unrest (including theft, looting or vandalism), terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), or the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft in countries in which we operate, in which our suppliers are located or regions goods are transported from or through, or in other areas of the world (such as in Ukraine and Israel where wars currently exist, and armed hostilities in the Red Sea and surrounding areas through which ocean carrier vessels travel to the Suez Canal) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise), such as Hurricane Otis that impacted our stores and operations around Acapulco,
17
Mexico in fiscal 2024, although not material to our consolidated financial performance.  Moreover, these disasters and events can negatively impact consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, increases in the costs of procuring products as a result of either reduced availability or economic sanctions, increased transportation costs (whether due to fuel prices, fuel supply or otherwise), the disruption (whether directly or indirectly) of critical infrastructure systems, banking systems, utility services or energy availability to our stores, clubs and our facilities and the disruption in our communications with our stores, clubs and our other facilities.
Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions, drought or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) are expected to be widespread and unpredictable.  Certain impacts of physical risk may include: temperature changes that increase the heating and cooling costs at stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers; extreme weather patterns that affect the production or sourcing of certain commodities; flooding and extreme storms that damage or destroy our buildings and inventory; and heat and extreme weather events that cause long-term disruption or threats to the habitability of the communities in which we operate. Relative to transition risk, certain impacts may include: changes in energy and commodity prices driven by climate-related weather events; prolonged climate-related events affecting macroeconomic conditions with related effects on consumer spending and confidence; stakeholder perception of our engagement in climate-related policies; and new regulatory requirements resulting in higher compliance risk and operational costs.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers; theft, loss or spoilage of inventory; and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, our operations in the U.S. comprise a significant portion of our financial and operational performance. Therefore, any of the above matters that uniquely impact or are specifically concentrated in the U.S. could materially adversely affect our financial and operational performance
.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances (such as pandemic recovery related challenges, including supply chain disruption and production, labor shortages and increases in labor costs) in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located or regions goods are transported from or through, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers not having the financial ability or capacity to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us if called upon, thereby exposing us to the full cost of risks and claims, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, U.S. and international trade policies, tariffs and other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods, trade sanctions imposed between certain countries and entities, the limitation on the exportation or importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
If the quality or safety of products we sell in stores or online fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries caused by a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with quality products at an affordable price. Occasionally, the quality of products that we source from our suppliers fails to meet customer expectations.  In many cases, these products are subject to regulatory action or recall.  For general merchandise, this could be because the product fails to meet safety standards.  For food products, it could be because the product is a source of foodborne illness.  For health and wellness products, it could be because the product does not produce the expected result for the customer or harms the customer. Any of these factors could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to choose to buy products from a different retailer, even if the quality issue is
18
outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  When a product we sell does not meet quality or safety standards, there is an increased risk of liability for harm the product may cause our customers. While we rely on our suppliers to meet our safety and quality expectations, and to indemnify us if their products do not, certain suppliers may not have the financial capacity or ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. In that case, we are exposed to the full cost of liability claims.  Any issue regarding the quality or safety of products we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.
If the quality or safety of products offered for sale on our third-party marketplace fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could be held directly liable, lose customers, become subject to regulatory enforcement or otherwise experience reputational harm.
Some of the products customers buy from our website are sold by third parties, which we refer to as marketplace transactions.  While that transaction ultimately occurs between the third-party seller and the customer, some regulators and courts have taken a view that the retailer is responsible for marketplace transactions that occur on a retailer's digital platform.  Unsettled law on whether a retailer is responsible for intellectual property or product liability claims related to marketplace transactions creates additional risk. Any unfavorable changes or legal interpretations could further expose us to liability. In addition, poor quality or safety of third-party products offered for sale on our platforms could erode customer trust, leading to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position. In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party products offered for sale on our platform that are controversial, counterfeit, pirated or stolen or that infringe the intellectual property rights of others.  We may not be able to collect sufficient damages for these types of breaches from third-party sellers. Furthermore, a regulator may view us as having responsibility for regulatory compliance of the third-party products offered for sale on our platform. Although we have marketplace compliance controls in place and impose contractual terms on sellers to prohibit sales of non-compliant products, we may not be able prevent sellers from offering prohibited items for sale, enforce such terms, or fully protect against regulatory risk. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth and enterprise strategy.
We rely extensively on information and financial systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security incidents and breaches from a variety of threat actors, including both cybercriminals and nation state-sponsored actors, catastrophic events such as fires, major or extended winter storms, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, usage errors by our associates or contractors, civil or political unrest or armed hostilities.  The availability of our information systems and the integrity of data are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.  If our systems are damaged, breached, attacked, interrupted or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to the availability of our information systems or corruption of our data may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, the cost of securing our systems against failure or attack is considerable, and increases in these costs, particularly in the wake of a breach or failure, could be significant.
In addition, we frequently update our information technology hardware, software, processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely or successfully integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. For example, during the first quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, we initiated an upgrade to our existing financial system, including our general ledger and other applications. If we are unable to implement this upgrade as planned, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected; our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed; and our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be negatively impacted.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online and enable us to deliver products and services do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media, online advertising and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-
19
channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world, and we continue to make investments in supply chain automation to support our omni-channel strategy. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Moreover, some of the various technology systems and services on which we rely are provided and managed by third-party service providers. To the extent either our or such other third-party systems and services do not perform or function as anticipated, whether because of an inherent flaw in the technology, a faulty implementation or a cybersecurity incident, such failure can significantly interfere with our ability to meet our customers' changing expectations. Any disruption or failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly and secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise and services at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology in a cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Any failure to maintain the privacy or security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates, business partners and vendors, whether as a result of cyberattacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, result in fines, penalties, and liability, cause us to incur substantial additional costs and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we process in our information systems personal information and/or payment information about our customers and members, and we also process information concerning our associates and vendors.  In addition, our health and wellness business operations, the Walmart Health locations, and third-party service providers who handle information on our behalf, store and maintain personal health information.  Some of this information is stored digitally in connection with the digital platforms and technologies that we use to conduct and facilitate our various businesses.
We utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, compute capacity, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates, business partners or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for disrupting or obtaining access to information systems or information stored in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases, they may lead to successful attacks. Unauthorized activities directed against information systems and devices, whether our own or those of our third-party service providers and vendors, have resulted in cybersecurity incidents, including malware, ransomware, denial of service attacks or phishing incidents. We expect that our information systems and those of our third-party service providers, vendors and suppliers will continue to experience such attempted attacks in the future, which could include disruptions to our supply chain system.
Cyberattacks and threat actors can be sponsored by particular nation-states, or be the work of sophisticated criminal organizations, insiders (including our associates or contractors) or third parties, each with a wide-range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience incidents and threats to data and information systems.
These incidents and threats have included and are likely to continue to include both random and targeted cyberattacks, computer viruses, phishing incidents, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. The increased use of remote work infrastructure in recent years has also increased the possible attack surfaces to be exploited. Our logging capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. As noted above, some of our information systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents or breaches and, although to date they have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems used in legacy operations and acquired eCommerce, technology or other businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks.  Those attacks involve attempts to impede the operations of our system or gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including personal information and/or payment information and related risks discussed in this
I
tem
1A
. Such attacks, if successful, may result in potential data misuse and/or loss and may create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage the information systems that enable or support one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity and our ability to efficiently operate our business.
If we are unable to maintain the security of the information systems that enable or support our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive
20
position and incur liability for any damage to customers, members or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and a compromise or breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, the hardware, software or applications that comprise our information system and networked environment may have vulnerabilities or defects of design, coding, manufacture or operations that could be intentionally exploited or inadvertently used in a manner that could compromise information security. Given the age, size and complexity of these information systems and our networked environment, patches for certain vulnerabilities may not exist and, even where patches or other risk-mitigating activities are available, the deployment of patches or execution of risk-mitigating actions may not occur before an underlying vulnerability is exploited by threat actors or inadvertently results in the compromise of our information systems or data.
Any compromise of our information systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in regulated data or confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions (including, with respect to health information, liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or "HIPAA"), customer attrition, remediation expenses and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems or data change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures, or detect the activities of a threat actor.  Even if we detect a cybersecurity incident, the nature and extent of that cybersecurity incident may not be immediately clear.  Based on the sophistication of the threat actors and the size and complexity of our information systems and networked environment, among other factors, an investigation into a cybersecurity incident could take a significant amount of time to complete.  We may not understand or appreciate that what is detected and treated as multiple individual cybersecurity incidents or events may be associated with the coordinated actions of a single threat actor.  In addition, while our investigation of a cybersecurity incident is ongoing, we may not know the full extent of the harm caused by a threat actor, and such harm may spread both internally and to certain customers, vendors, or other third parties.  These factors may inhibit our ability to provide rapid, complete and reliable information about the cybersecurity incident to customers, counterparties and regulators, as well as the public.  It may also not be clear how best to contain and remediate any harm caused by the cybersecurity incident, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated.  Any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, members, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance programs, information technology and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk.  Disruptions in our systems caused by associate error or malfeasance, security incidents, breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with (such as strategic partners, suppliers, banks or utility companies) – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, members, financial services firms and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
Our reputation with our customers and members is important to the success of our enterprise strategy, which combines traditional retail, membership models, marketplaces, financial services, healthcare, and other customer and business services into a series of interconnected assets to make it seamless for customers to interact with us. Security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, growth rates, operating income, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security compromise or operationally impactful malware event, such as ransomware, could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
21
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, electronic benefits transfer (EBT) cards, mobile payments and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we or our third-party suppliers maintain are able to detect, prevent or contain cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security incidents, breaches or other compromises from malware, ransomware or other threats that are known or may be developed in the future.  In certain circumstances, our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
Additionally, through various financial service partners and our ONE fintech venture, we offer various services such as money transfers, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders, check cashing, prepaid access, co-branded credits cards, installment lending and earned wage access. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including those related to privacy, information security, anti-money laundering and sanctions regimes and consumer protection, under both U.S. state and federal laws and regulations, as well as those of certain other countries. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation.
We also have compliance obligations associated with privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include liability for security and privacy breaches.  Among other obligations, breaches may trigger obligations under U.S. federal and state laws and those in certain other countries to notify affected individuals, government agencies and the media.  Consequently, cybersecurity incidents that result in a data breach could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
Changes in third-party reimbursements and contracts, type or scope of offerings of our health and wellness business or the Walmart Health business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
We have retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments across the U.S. and in various of our international markets such as Canada and Mexico. We also provide management services to Walmart Health centers that offer medical, dental, behavioral health and other health services in a number of states, as well as a national telehealth service provider. In addition, our 10-year collaboration with UnitedHealth Group includes agreements for Walmart Health to provide value-based care to patients in certain areas of the U.S., among other initiatives.
A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs"). Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements, including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options and/or home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any additional
changes in the state or federal regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of health reform efforts, and other changes to or novel interpretations of existing state or federal laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
22
Walmart Health clinical operations are also subject to numerous risks, including but not limited to: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for services; changes in our payer mix; changes in the health insurance market generally; our inability to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans; competition for patients from other healthcare providers, including those that offer telehealth services; changes to healthcare provider utilization practices and treatment methodologies; trends toward value-based purchasing and price transparency; overall economic conditions and the ability of patients to pay for services; staffing challenges, including retention of a sufficient number and quality of healthcare professionals; compliance with the complex and extensive laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry; changes in laws and regulations, including as a result of health reform efforts; and healthcare technology initiatives, including those related to patient data and interoperability; and public health conditions.
One or a combination of the factors above may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities. In addition, these and other factors may adversely affect the type, volume and mix of services we provide, the reimbursement we receive for health and wellness services rendered, and the scope and pace of expansion of Walmart Health and related offerings. Any of these developments could, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including our enterprise strategy and management transitions within our senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success. We compete for talent with other retail and non-retail businesses, including, for example, technology, health and wellness and fintech businesses, and invest significant resources in training and motivating our associates. Increased competition among potential employers at all levels, including senior management and executive levels, could result in increased associate costs or make it more difficult to recruit and retain associates.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new, revised or novel interpretations of existing labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws, including those related to worker classification, are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income, growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, advertising and other higher-margin initiatives (which is expected to help drive our operating income growth at a rate faster than net sales over the long term), capital expenditures, comparable store and club sales growth rates or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our effective tax rates, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of our performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial
23
performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores, clubs and eCommerce platforms around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate retail and eCommerce businesses in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2024, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as India, restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures or nationalization), antitrust and competition law regulatory matters (such as those underway in Canada, Mexico and India (relating to our Flipkart subsidiary)), local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, foreign exchange or currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
Changing our operations in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade or newly imposed sanctions can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations, and such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice and we may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures.  In addition, tensions between nation-state governments and conflicts of laws may lead to challenges for our operations.  If disputes and conflicts further escalate in the future, actions by governments in response could be significantly more severe and restrictive and could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.  Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have a negative effect on consumer confidence and spending, which could also adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they recur, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, geopolitical tensions or events, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. sanctions laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries. We maintain global policies which appropriately regulate such business practices and have in place global compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are appropriately regulated by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
24
Changes in tax and trade laws, regulations and interpretations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2024, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 82% of our consolidated net sales. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. and international operations as well as our business.
We are subject to income taxes, other taxes and tax collection and reporting obligations in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles and the interpretations of those rules. In addition, we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date of those obligations.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, and changes in transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries, any of which can impact our or our subsidiaries current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law, changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws or changes in transfer pricing arrangements could also have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act and any other new tax rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations, including collecting information not regularly produced by us or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to or seek to enforce novel interpretations of their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect and more permanent changes.  For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), the European Union and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed. In particular, the OECD's Pillar Two initiative introduces a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis, which became effective in many jurisdictions in which we operate starting January 1, 2024.  The impact of these potential new rules as well as any other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations could have a material effect on our effective tax rate.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations, legislation and interpretations.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws, regulations and interpretations of such laws and regulations specific to the businesses and jurisdictions in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate and could be materially adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.  In addition, the degree of regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face increases the likelihood that our efforts to adhere our practices and procedures to comply with these laws and legal requirements may be subject to frequent or increasing challenges.
Our health and wellness operations in the U.S. and the operations of the Walmart Health locations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, those related to: licensing, reimbursement arrangements and other requirements and restrictions; registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; governmental (including Medicare and Medicaid) and commercial reimbursement; data privacy and security and the sharing and interoperability of data, including obligations and restrictions related to health information (such as those imposed under HIPAA); billing and coding for healthcare services and properly handling overpayments; debt collection; necessity and adequacy of healthcare services; relationships with referral
25
sources and referral recipients and other fraud and abuse issues, such as those addressed by anti-kickback and false claims laws and patient inducement regulations; qualification of healthcare practitioners; quality and standards of medical services and equipment; and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, medical, dental and behavioral healthcare services, including limitations on the corporate practice of medicine in certain states.
Health-related legislation at the federal and state level may have an adverse effect on our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations.  For example, in the U.S., the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various other regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, distribution, maintenance and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state-controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances.  The DEA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  In addition, there has been recent heightened governmental and public scrutiny of pharmaceutical product pricing, which has resulted in federal and state legislation and regulations, executive orders and other initiatives and proposals designed to increase transparency in pharmaceutical product pricing and reform government program reimbursement methodologies (for example, the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes, among other matters, policies designed to impact drug prices and reduce drug spending by the federal government). Other health reform efforts at the federal and state levels may also impact our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. We may not be able to predict the nature or success of reform initiatives, and the resulting uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters; protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; food and drug safety, including drug supply chain security requirements; trade, consumer protection, and safety, including the availability, sale, price label accuracy, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs, as well as our ONE fintech venture); anti-money laundering prohibitions; consumer financial protection laws; economic, trade and other sanctions matters; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; data privacy and cybersecurity and the sharing and interoperability of data; working conditions, workplace health and safety, equal employment opportunity, worker classification, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters; and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the U.S.  In addition, certain financial services we offer or make available are subject to U.S. and international legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, fraud and other illicit activity, as well as consumer financial protections and sanctions laws.  Failure to meet these requirements could affect the profitability of our business activities; limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or conduct business in certain jurisdictions; require changes to business practices or governance or alter our relationships with our customers, partners and other third parties, including our ability to continue certain relationships in Mexico, India or other international jurisdictions; result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight and compliance, litigation-related settlements, judgments or expenses, restitution to customers or the imposition of fines or monetary penalties. Increased U.S. regulation of non-bank financial institutions may also result in additional requirements and scrutiny of certain financial services we offer.
Increasing governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting diligence, and disclosure topics such as climate change, sustainability (including with respect to our supply chain), natural resources, waste reduction, energy, human capital and risk oversight could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess and report.
Data privacy and protection laws or customer expectations relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information continue to undergo a rapid transformation in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Recently enacted state laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), in a number of states that have become effective, or will soon be effective, have created a substantially more complex regulatory regime associated with data-handling practices.  Moreover, other laws and regulations related to data-handling and privacy that apply to our business, such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the United Kingdom's General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law), China's Personal Information Protection Act ("PIPL"), and similar legislation in Quebec Canada further increases the compliance obligations of our business. Certain of these laws have required us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply, which we anticipate will continue in the future.  These and other privacy and cybersecurity laws may carry significant potential damages and civil penalties for noncompliance. For example, in the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the GDPR (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover (i.e., revenue) in the prior year. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach.  Further, PIPL took effect in China in November 2021. PIPL raises the protection requirements for processing personal information and requires government approval to either allow the access of personal information in China by someone outside of China or conduct personal data transfers outside of China. Fines for PIPL violations range from approximately RMB 50 million to up to 5% of
26
the infringing company's previous year's revenues generated from within China.  We have made changes, and we may in the future make additional adjustments to our business practices, to comply with the personal information protection laws and regulations in China as they evolve.  Residents in jurisdictions with comprehensive privacy laws have rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used and may have a private right of action for data breaches. Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act.  We may be subjected to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including changing some portions of our business.  Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, impact our reputation and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny as to existing laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, in the U.S., shifting enforcement priorities for existing antitrust, competition and pricing laws, as well as proposed new rules and regulations) generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices of existing laws and regulations may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation.  If we fail to predict or respond adequately to changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our business, operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, we may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  The regulatory, political and media scrutiny we face, which may continue, amplifies these risks.  To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required licenses and certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages.  Failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment.  We are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, environmental and other governmental authorities.  We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain businesses we have divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years.  For example, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class or collective-action allegations, or both, in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.
We have been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids. We are also a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids, including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804) currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and a lawsuit filed against us by the United States Department of Justice in the District of Delaware in 2020.  Similar cases that name us also have been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, healthcare providers and other plaintiffs. Plaintiffs in these cases are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement.  We have entered into a settlement framework to resolve certain of these matters and accrued a liability for approximately $3.3 billion, almost all of which was paid in fiscal 2024.  We cannot predict the ultimate number of opioids-related claims that may be filed or their outcomes and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from opioids-related matters.
In addition, in July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart and other parties requesting the recipients show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations that related to a period prior to our acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018.  Also, in October 2023, the main Mexican operating subsidiary of Wal-Mart de México was notified of the initiation of a quasi-judicial administrative process against it for alleged relative monopolistic practices in connection with the supply and wholesale distribution of certain consumer goods, retail marketing practices of such consumer
27
goods and related services. Because this process is at an early stage, we cannot provide any assurance as to the scope and outcome of this matter, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from this matter.
We can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the notice, the amount of proceeds we may receive in indemnification, and can provide no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to our business or Consolidated Financial Statements.  We are also a defendant in litigation with the Federal Trade Commission regarding our money transfer agent services and is also cooperating with and responding to subpoenas issued by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on behalf of the U.S. Department of Justice regarding our consumer fraud prevention program and anti-money laundering compliance related to our money transfer services, where we are an agent.  We are unable to predict the outcome of the litigation or investigations or any other related actions by governmental entities regarding these matters and can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.  We discuss in more detail these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Le
gal Proceedings
" and in
Note 10
in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. The exclusive forum provision may increase the costs for a shareholder to bring a claim or limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. While the exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with, and the exclusive forum provision will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under, the federal securities laws, including the Exchange Act, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Our reputation may be adversely affected if we are not able to satisfy varied stakeholder expectations with respect to our ESG goals.
We strive to deliver shared value through our business and our diverse stakeholders expect us to make significant progress in certain ESG priority issue areas.  Stakeholder expectations regarding ESG matters continue to evolve and are not uniform.  We have established, and may continue to establish, various goals and initiatives on these matters, including with respect to climate change initiatives.  We cannot guarantee that we will achieve these goals and initiatives.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to achieve these goals and initiatives or to otherwise meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations could adversely affect our reputation. We periodically publish information about our ESG priorities, strategies and progress on our corporate website and update our ESG reporting from time to time.  Achievement of these aspirations and goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and it is possible that we may fail, or be perceived to have failed, in the achievement of our ESG goals or that certain of our customers, associates, shareholders, investors, suppliers, business partners, government agencies and non-governmental organizations might not be satisfied with our goals or our efforts toward achieving those goals.  Certain challenges we face in the achievement of our ESG objectives are also captured within our ESG reporting, which is not incorporated by reference into and does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A failure or perceived failure to meet our goals could adversely affect public perception of our business, associate morale or customer or shareholder support.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 1C.
CYBERSECURITY
Walmart seeks to build and maintain the trust of customers, associates, shareholders and other stakeholders with respect to our use of technology and data. Our digital trust commitments, in line with our Company's values of service, excellence, integrity and respect for the individual, provide a foundation for our approach to cybersecurity.
28
The Board of Directors, committees of the Board of Directors and management coordinate risk oversight and management responsibilities, and cybersecurity represents an important component of our overall approach to enterprise risk management. In general, we seek to address cybersecurity risks through a cross-functional approach focused on protecting business operations and preserving the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information by identifying, preventing and mitigating cybersecurity threats and effectively responding to cybersecurity incidents when they occur.
Board of Directors' oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats
Our Board of Directors, which has primary responsibility for overseeing risk management, has delegated risk management oversight responsibility for information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity to the Audit Committee. Several of our Board members, including certain members of our Audit Committee, have backgrounds or professional experience in risk management, digital platforms, information technology or cybersecurity.
The Audit Committee receives periodic updates from our Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO"), Chief Technology Officer ("CTO") and other members of management on risks related to information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity. Specific topics may include updates to our company's approach to cybersecurity risk management; recent developments; key initiatives; the threat landscape; trends; and the results of certain assessments and testing. The Board of Directors receives regular reports from the Audit Committee chair on these and other risk-related matters as deemed necessary. Our CISO or other members of management provide information to the Audit Committee pursuant to risk-based escalation protocols for cybersecurity incidents that exceed established reporting thresholds.
Management's role in assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats
Our CISO leads Walmart's Information Security organization and has responsibility for overseeing our Company's cybersecurity program. To operationalize our program, we deploy multidisciplinary teams, including cybersecurity personnel and professionals, to address cybersecurity threats and respond to cybersecurity incidents, including for those non-wholly owned subsidiaries whose systems have not been fully integrated into Walmart's networks. Through ongoing engagement with these teams and certain third-party service providers, our CISO monitors the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents and reports cybersecurity incidents that reach established thresholds to senior management and the Audit Committee, which are also analyzed for external reporting requirements.
Our CISO has been a Walmart associate for over 30 years, has served in various roles in information technology and information security at Walmart for almost 20 years, and has received industry-recognized information security certifications. Our CTO, to whom the CISO reports, has served as Walmart's CTO since 2019 and prior to that had experience managing technology and other risks at several other large public companies.
Risk Management and Strategy
Our cybersecurity program is informed by various industry frameworks including the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (NIST-CSF Version 1.1), which are reflected in our related policies, standards, processes and practices. We may implement changes to our cybersecurity program when deemed necessary based on updates to industry standards among other things. We have multiple layers of security designed to detect and block cybersecurity events, as well as dedicated teams of cybersecurity personnel and professionals, which assist our CISO in helping to assess, identify, monitor, detect and manage cybersecurity risks, threats, vulnerabilities and incidents. We collaborate with public and private entities and industry groups and engage third-party service providers to expand the capabilities and capacity of our cybersecurity program when deemed necessary. Certain key components of our cybersecurity program include the following:
Protecting our technology and information systems:
When we implement significant changes to our technologies or information systems, we conduct risk-based security and privacy impact assessments and deploy technical safeguards that are designed to reasonably protect our technology and information systems from cybersecurity threats. We actively monitor and proactively research potential cybersecurity threats to our technologies and information systems. We use what we learn to evolve our security controls over time to mitigate risks posed by such threats.
Incident response and recovery planning:
We maintain incident response and recovery plans that address our response to cybersecurity incidents, including incidents that we become aware of at third parties that support our operations. These plans guide how we evaluate and assign incident severity levels and reporting thresholds; escalate and engage incident response teams; and manage and mitigate the related risks.
Third-party risk management:
We maintain a risk-based approach to identifying and managing cybersecurity threats presented to Walmart by third-party systems that support our operations, as well as third-party users of our data and systems, including vendors, service providers and subcontractors.
Training and awareness:
We provide recurring information security training (which includes cybersecurity training) to our associates and certain third parties based on access, risk, roles, policies, standards and behaviors.
29
Assessments and testing:
We engage in periodic assessment and testing of our policies, standards, processes and practices that are designed to address cybersecurity threats. These efforts include tabletop exercises, threat modeling, vulnerability testing and other exercises focused on evaluating the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures and planning. We regularly engage third parties to assist with our assessments and testing. Where appropriate we adjust our cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices accordingly based on internal and external assessment and testing results.
Certain of Walmart's systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents and threats. Based on the information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any cybersecurity incidents, which have materially affected us or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Despite our security measures, however, there can be no assurance that we, or the third parties with which we interact, will not experience a cybersecurity incident in the future that will materially affect us. Additional information about cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in  "
Item 1A
.
Risk Factors
," which should be read in conjunction with the information above.
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
As of January 31, 2024
(1)
, retail unit counts for Walmart U.S., Sam's Club and International are summarized as follows:
Total
Square feet
(2)
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
3,560
632,771
...
Neighborhood Markets and other small formats
695
28,414
Walmart U.S. Total
4,615
699,001
Sam's Club
599
80,199
Domestic Total
5,214
779,200
International
Retail
5,075
236,180
Wholesale
327
37,685
International Total
5,402
273,865
Total Company
10,616
1,053,065
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2023, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market.  Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2024.
(2)
Square feet reported in thousands.
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31, 2024
(1)
:
Owned
Leased
(2)
Total
Retail Units
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,041
574
4,615
Sam's Club retail units
512
87
599
International retail units
1,469
3,933
5,402
Total retail units
6,022
4,594
10,616
Distribution Facilities
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
112
50
162
Sam's Club distribution facilities
10
20
30
International distribution facilities
22
154
176
Total distribution facilities
144
224
368
(1)
Walmart International properties, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2023, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2024.
(2)
Also includes U.S. and international distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
30
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management.  The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company.  We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.  All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume.  Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses. For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
The Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of its business, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, subpoenas, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities.
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," which is captioned "Contingencies," under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings."  We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.  We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed.
Prescription Opiate Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation
(MDL No. 2804) (the "MDL"). The MDL is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes over 340 cases as of March 4, 2024. The liability phase of a single, two-county trial in one of the MDL cases against a number of parties, including the Company, regarding opioid dispensing claims resulted in a jury verdict on November 23, 2021, finding in favor of the plaintiffs as to the liability of all defendants, including the Company. The abatement phase of the single, two-county trial resulted in a judgment on August 17, 2022, that ordered all three defendants, including the Company, to pay an aggregate amount of approximately $0.7 billion over fifteen years, on a joint and several liability basis, and granted the plaintiffs injunctive relief. The Company has filed an appeal with the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. The monetary aspect of the judgment is stayed pending appeal, and the injunctive portion of the judgment went into effect on February 20, 2023.  On September 11, 2023, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued an order certifying certain questions in the appeal for review by the Supreme Court of Ohio.  On November 29, 2023, the Supreme Court of Ohio accepted the request for certification, and the matter remains pending with that court.  On October 25, 2023, the MDL designated four cases brought by third-party payers as bellwether cases to proceed through discovery. Additional bellwethers of cases brought by hospitals and other healthcare providers may be designated in the future.   In addition, there are over 50 other cases pending in state and federal courts throughout the country against the Company as of March 4, 2024, as well as other cases in Canada against Wal-Mart Canada Corp. and certain other subsidiaries of the Company. The case citations and currently scheduled trial dates, where applicable, are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Opioid Settlement Framework:
On November 15, 2022, the Company announced that it had agreed to a Settlement Framework to resolve substantially all opioids-related lawsuits filed against the Company by states, political subdivisions, and Native American tribes (other than the single, two-county trial on appeal to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals as described above), as described in more detail in
Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company now has settlement agreements with all 50 states, including four states that previously settled with the Company, as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and three other U.S. territories, that are intended to resolve substantially all opioids-related lawsuits brought by state and local governments against the Company. As described in more detail in
Note 10
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Settlement Framework became effective on September 6, 2023, and as of January 31, 2024 substantially all of the original approximately $3.3 billion accrued liability for the Settlement Framework and other settlements have been paid.
DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation:
A civil complaint pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware has been filed by the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") against the Company, in which the DOJ alleges violations of the Controlled Substances Act related to nationwide distribution and dispensing of opioids. U.S. v. Walmart Inc., et al., USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the DOJ complaint on February 22, 2021. After the parties had fully briefed the Company's motion to dismiss, the DOJ filed an amended complaint on October 7, 2022. On November 7, 2022, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The Court held a hearing on the partial motion to dismiss on January 18, 2024, and ordered the DOJ to file an amended complaint. The DOJ filed that amended complaint on February 1, 2024, and Walmart filed a partial motion to dismiss that complaint on February 6, 2024. On March 11, 2024, the Court granted in-part Walmart's motion by dismissing the entirety of the DOJ's claims related to distribution and dismissing the DOJ's claims arising under one of the DOJ's two dispensing liability theories.  The DOJ's claims arising under its other dispensing liability theory remain pending.
31
Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation
: Three derivative complaints and two securities class actions drawing heavily on the allegations of the DOJ complaint have been filed in Delaware naming the Company and various current and former directors and certain current and former officers as defendants. The plaintiffs in the derivative suits (in which the Company is a nominal defendant) allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with oversight of opioids dispensing and distribution and that the defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, and are liable for contribution under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act in connection with the Company's disclosures about opioids. Two of the derivative suits have been filed in the U.S. District Court in Delaware and those suits have been stayed pending further developments in other opioids litigation matters. The other derivative suit has been filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The defendants in the derivative suit pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery moved to dismiss and/or to stay that case on December 21, 2021; the plaintiffs responded by filing an amended complaint on February 22, 2022. On April 20, 2022, the defendants moved to dismiss and/or stay proceedings on the amended complaint.  In two orders issued on April 12 and 26, 2023, the Court of Chancery granted the defendants' motion to dismiss with respect to claims involving the Company's distribution practices and denied the remainder of the motion, including the Company's request to stay the litigation.  On May 5, 2023, the Company's Board of Directors appointed an independent Special Litigation Committee (the "SLC") to investigate the allegations regarding certain current and former officers and directors named in the various proceedings regarding oversight with respect to opioids.  The Board has authorized the SLC to retain independent legal counsel and such other advisors as the SLC deems appropriate in carrying out its duties. The derivative matter pending in the Delaware Court of Chancery is stayed until the SLC completes its investigation.
The securities class actions, alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act regarding the Company's disclosures with respect to opioids, purport to be filed on behalf of a class of investors who acquired Walmart stock from March 30, 2016, through December 22, 2020. On May 11, 2021, the U.S. District Court in Delaware consolidated the class actions and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. The defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated securities class action on October 8, 2021. On October 14, 2022, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, which revised the applicable putative class of investors to those who acquired Walmart stock from March 31, 2017, through December 22, 2020. On November 16, 2022, the Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint. That motion remains pending.
Derivative Lawsuits:
Abt v. Alvarez et al.
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 2/9/21;
...
Dist. of DE, 3/5/21, consolidated into
In re Walmart Inc. Securities Litigation
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 5/11/21.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v. ASDA Stores Ltd (2406372/2008 & Others – Manchester Employment Tribunal); Abbas & Others v Asda Stores limited (KB-2022-003243); and Abusubih & Others v Asda Stores limited (KB-2022-003240).
Money Transfer Agent Services Litigation:
Federal Trade Commission v. Walmart Inc. (CV-3372), USDC, N. Dist. Of Ill, 6/28/22.
Mexico Antitrust Matter:
Comisión Federal de Competencia Económica of México, Investigative Authority v. Nueva Wal-Mart de México, S.de R.L. de C.V. (Docket IO-002-2020, consolidated with Docket DE-026-2020), Mexico, 10/6/23.
II. CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS:
Foreign Direct Investment Matters:
In July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart Private Limited and one of its subsidiaries ("Flipkart"), and to unrelated companies and individuals, including certain current and former shareholders and directors of Flipkart. The notice requests the recipients to show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations (the "Rules") should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations during the period from 2009 to 2015, prior to the Company's acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018. The notice is an initial stage of proceedings under the Rules which could, depending upon the conclusions at the end of the initial stage, lead to a hearing to consider the merits of the allegations described in the notice. If a hearing is initiated and if it is determined that violations of the Rules occurred, the regulatory authority has the authority to impose monetary and/or non-monetary relief. Flipkart has begun the process of responding to the notice and, if the matter progresses to a consideration of the merits of the allegations described in the notice is initiated, Flipkart intends to defend against the allegations vigorously. Due to the fact that this process is in an early stage, the Company is unable to predict whether the notice will lead to a hearing on the merits or, if it does, the final outcome of the resulting proceedings. While the Company does not currently believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the notice, the amount of the proceeds the Company may receive in indemnification from individuals and entities that sold shares to the Company under the 2018 agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired its majority stake in Flipkart, and can provide no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its Consolidated Financial Statements.
32
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed an applied threshold not to exceed $1 million.
In December 2021, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of California filed suit against the Company, bringing enforcement claims regarding Walmart's management of waste consumer products at its California facilities that are alleged to be hazardous. The suit was filed in Superior Court of Alameda County, California, Case No. 21CV004367, People v. Walmart Inc.  Trial is currently set for September 30, 2024. The Company believes it has strong defenses and is vigorously defending this litigation matter. While the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, the potential for penalties or settlement costs could exceed $1 million. Although the Company does not believe that this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of this matter and no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2023, the Company received a Finding of Violation from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") alleging violations of the Clean Air Act in connection with the Company's refrigeration leak detection and repair program at certain of its facilities.  The Company is evaluating the findings and cooperating with the EPA in its investigation. The EPA may seek to impose monetary and non-monetary penalties for the alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.  Due to the fact that this process is in an early stage, the Company is unable to predict the final outcome of this matter.  Although the Company does not believe this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of this matter and no assurance as to whether there will be a material adverse effect to its business or its Consolidated Financial Statements.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 13, 2024, there were 200,344 holders of record of Walmart's common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2024 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index (formerly named the S&P 500 Retailing Index) and the S&P 500 Index.  The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2019 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2019
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2024
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2019
...
175.90
161.45
195.06
S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index
100.00
117.54
166.19
...
147.66
190.67
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2024 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases. As of January 31, 2024, authorization for $16.5 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
34
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2024, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
(1)
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
(1)
...
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023") and January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.  We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes.  We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance.  Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial position and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures.  From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, for a particular period from the corresponding period in the previous year.  Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales.  We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our ecosystem, such as our Walmart Connect advertising business.  Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than five percent.  Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months.  Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry.  The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry.  As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars.  We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months.  Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  Volatility in currency exchange rates may impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment in the future.
On February 23, 2024, the Company effected a 3-for-1 forward split of its common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of authorized shares. All share and per share information, including share based compensation, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.
We have taken certain strategic actions across our segments, including an increased emphasis on investments in automation and supply chain as well as diversifying our earnings streams through category and business mix.  Additionally, in the Walmart International segment, we have taken strategic actions to reshape our portfolio including the following highlights over the last three years:
•
In February 2021, we completed the sale of Asda for net consideration of $9.6 billion. Refer to
Note 12
...
Note 12
.
•
In November 2022, we completed the buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary (Refer to
Note 3
) and in December 2022, we exited operations in certain countries in Africa.
•
In December 2022, we increased our ownership in PhonePe as part of the separation from our majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary.  Refer to
Note 3
.
We operate in a highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve.  We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce, health and wellness, financial services, advertising and data service businesses.  Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence.  We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates.  We, along with other retail companies, are
36
influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather and other risks related to climate change, global health epidemics and pandemics, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, disruptions in supply chain, inventory management, cost and availability of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, inflation, deflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor availability and costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment.  Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low
costs. Merchandise costs for fiscal 2024 continued to be impacted by inflation, however at a lower rate than we experienced in fiscal 2023.  The impact to our net sales and gross profit margin is influenced in part by our pricing and merchandising strategies in response to cost increases. Those pricing strategies include but are not limited to: absorbing cost increases instead of passing those cost increases on to our customers and members; reducing prices in certain merchandise categories; focusing on opening price points for certain food categories; and when necessary, passing cost increases on to our customers and members. Merchandising strategies include, but are not limited to: working with our suppliers to reduce product costs and share in absorbing cost increases; focusing on private label brands and smaller pack sizes; earlier-than-usual purchasing and in greater volumes or moderating purchasing in certain categories; and securing ocean carrier and container capacity. These strategies have and may continue to impact gross profit as a percentage of net sales.
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to inflationary trends; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; volatility in employment trends; supply chain pressures; and ongoing uncertainties related to global health epidemics or pandemics, any of which may impact our results.  For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Operations
" below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs.  At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate.  We define our financial priorities as follows:
•
Growth - serve customers through a seamless omni-channel experience;
•
Margin - improve our operating income margin through productivity initiatives as well as category and business mix; and
•
Returns - improve our Return on Investment ("ROI") through margin improvement and disciplined capital spend.
Growth
Our objective of prioritizing growth means we will focus on serving customers and members however they want to shop through our omni-channel business model.  This includes increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership at Sam's Club and through Walmart+, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expansion of omni-channel initiatives that complement our strategy.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year.  The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar).  To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases.  However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar. We focus on comparable sales in the U.S. as we believe it is a meaningful metric within the context of the U.S. retail market where there is a single currency, one inflationary market and generally consistent store and club formats from year to year.
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2024 and 2023, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2024
2023
2024
2023
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
5.5%
7.0%
(0.1)%
0.4%
Sam's Club
2.3%
14.6%
(2.6)%
...
8.2%
(0.6)%
1.0%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 4.9% and 8.2% in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 5.5% and 7.0% in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.  For fiscal 2024, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in transactions combined with growth in average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness.  For fiscal 2023, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in
37
transactions. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.6% and 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, which was primarily driven by store pickup and delivery.
Comparable sales at Sam's Club increased 2.3% and 14.6% in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.  For fiscal 2024, Sam's Club comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness.  Sam's Club comparable sales for fiscal 2023 benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket and included higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories.  Sam's Club eCommerce sales
positively
contributed approximately 1.7% and 0.8% to comparable sales for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Margin
Our objective of prioritizing margin focuses on growth with a focus on incremental margin accretion through a combination of productivity improvements as well as category and business mix.  We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs and we operate with discipline by managing expenses and optimizing the efficiency of how we work.  Additionally, we focus on our mix of businesses, including the expansion of connected value streams with higher margins, such as advertising and membership income.  Our objective is to achieve operating income leverage, which we define as growing operating income at a faster rate than net sales.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2024
2023
Net sales
$
642,637
$
...
%
6.7
%
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales
23.7
%
23.5
%
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.4
%
21.0
%
Operating income
$
27,012
$
20,428
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.2
%
3.4
%
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate") increased 27 and decreased 98 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and lapping higher markdowns incurred in the prior year, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.  For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily due to markdowns and merchandise mix in the U.S., higher supply chain costs and inflation related LIFO charges in the Sam's Club segment.
For fiscal 2024, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 60 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were positively impacted by lapping charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment in the prior year.
For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were negatively impacted by the charges related to opioid-related legal settlements and the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment discussed above.  These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased 83 basis points and decreased 120 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, due to the factors described above.
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time.  We measure return on capital with our return on assets, return on investment and free cash flow metrics.  We also provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA"), the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess returns on assets.  While ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets.  Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.  ROA was 6.6% and 4.6% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.  The increase in ROA was primarily due to the increase in consolidated net income, which was driven by higher operating income
.
ROI was 15.0% and 12.7% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in ROI was the result of an increase in operating income, primarily due to lapping charges associated with opioid-related legal settlements as well as reorganization and restructuring expenses, all recorded in fiscal 2023, as well as improvements in business performance, partially offset by an increase in average invested capital, primarily due to higher purchases of property and equipment.
38
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period.  We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.  For example, we exclude the impact of depreciation and amortization from our reported operating income in calculating the numerator of our calculation of ROI.  As mentioned above, we consider ROA to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP most directly comparable to our calculation of ROI.  ROI differs from ROA (which is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; and adjusts total assets for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities to arrive at total invested capital.  Because of the adjustments mentioned above, we believe ROI more accurately measures how we are deploying our key assets and is more meaningful to investors than ROA.  Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI.  As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2023
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
16,270
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
27,012
$
...
+ Rent
2,277
2,306
ROI operating income
$
41,688
$
...
2024
2023
2022
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
252,399
...
26,060
39
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes allocating the majority of our capital to higher-return areas focused on automation such as eCommerce, supply chain and store and club investments.  The following table provides additional detail regarding our capital expenditures:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2024
2023
Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives and technology
$
11,828
$
...
17,695
$
14,232
Walmart International
2,911
2,625
Total capital expenditures
$
20,606
$
16,857
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.  Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance.  Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.  See "
Liquidity and Capital Resources
" for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period.  We had net cash provided by operating activities of $35.7 billion, $28.8 billion and $24.2 billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  We generated free cash flow of $15.1 billion, $12.0 billion and $11.1 billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2024 is primarily due to higher cash provided by operating income, as well as timing of certain payments and strategic inventory management as part of working capital initiatives, partially offset by payment of the remaining accrued opioid legal charges.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2024 increased when compared to fiscal 2023 due to the increase in operating cash flows described above, partially offset by an increase of $3.7 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.  Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments.  Free cash flow for fiscal 2023 increased when compared to fiscal 2022 due to the increase in net cash provided by operating activities described above, partially offset by an increase of $3.8 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions.  Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2024
...
28,841
$
24,181
Payments for property and equipment
(20,606)
(16,857)
(13,106)
Free cash flow
$
15,120
$
...
(17,039)
(22,828)
(1)
"Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
40
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2024
2023
2022
Total revenues
$
648,125
$
...
%
2.4
%
Net sales
$
642,637
$
...
%
2.3
%
Total U.S. calendar comparable sales increase
4.9
%
8.2
%
7.7
%
Gross profit rate
23.7
%
23.5
%
24.4
%
Operating income
$
27,012
$
20,428
$
25,942
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.2
%
3.4
%
4.6
%
Loss on extinguishment of debt
$
—
$
—
$
2,410
Other (gains) and losses
$
3,027
$
1,538
$
3,000
Consolidated net income
$
16,270
$
11,292
$
13,940
Unit counts at period end
(1)
10,616
10,623
10,593
Retail square feet at period end
(1)
1,053
1,056
1,060
(1)
Unit counts and associated retail square feet are presented for stores and clubs generally open as of period end, and reflects the removal of stores in the U.K. and Japan subsequent to closing the divestitures in fiscal 2022.  Permanently closed locations are not included in these metrics.
Our total revenues, which includes net sales and membership and other income, increased $36.8 billion or 6.0% and $38.5 billion or 6.7% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $36.8 billion or 6.1% and $38.1 billion or 6.7% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments, which were driven by growth in transactions, combined with growth in average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness, along with positive comparable sales across our international markets. Net sales were positively impacted by $3.0 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2024.  For fiscal 2023, the increase was primarily due to strong positive comparable sales for the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments which was driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions, along with positive comparable sales in all of our international markets. Additionally, net sales were negatively impacted by a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023.
Our gross profit rate increased 27 basis points and decreased 98 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and lapping higher markdowns incurred in the prior year, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.  For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily due to markdowns and merchandise mix in the U.S., higher supply chain costs and inflation related LIFO charges in the Sam's Club segment.
For fiscal 2024, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased 60 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were positively impacted by lapping charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment in the prior year.  For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 23 basis points when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales were negatively impacted by the charges related to opioid-related legal settlements and the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment discussed above.  These charges were partially offset by growth in net sales and lower incremental COVID-19 costs.
Loss on extinguishment of debt was $2.4 billion in fiscal 2022 due to the early retirement of certain higher rate long-term debt to reduce interest expense in future periods.  There were no such early retirements of debt in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023.
Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as the change in the fair value of our investments and gains or losses on business dispositions, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses consisted of a net loss of $3.0 billion and $1.5 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.  The net loss in fiscal 2024 primarily consists of net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity and other investments.  The net loss in fiscal 2023 primarily consists of: net losses associated with the fair value changes of our equity and other investments; a gain of $0.4 billion recognized on the sale of our remaining equity method investment in Brazil; and a $0.2 billion dividend from one of our investments.
41
Our effective income tax rate was 25.5%, 33.6%, and 25.4% for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2023 as compared to both fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2022 is primarily due to the tax impact of the business reorganization resulting in the full separation of PhonePe from Flipkart in fiscal 2023. Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, changes in tax law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate.  The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 is presented in
Note 9
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $16.3 billion and $11.3 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, which represents an increase of $5.0 billion and a decrease of $2.6 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $1.91, $1.42 and $1.62 for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2024
2023
2022
Net sales
$
441,817
$
...
%
6.3
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
5.5
%
7.0
%
6.4
%
Operating income
$
22,154
$
20,620
$
21,587
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
5.0
%
4.9
%
5.5
%
Unit counts at period end
4,615
4,717
4,742
Retail square feet at period end
699
702
703
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $21.3 billion or 5.1% and $27.3 billion or 6.9% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 5.5% and 7.0% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2024 were driven by growth in transactions combined with growth in average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness.  Comparable sales in fiscal 2023 were driven by growth in average ticket, including strong food sales and higher inflation impacts in certain merchandise categories, as well as growth in transactions.  Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.6% and 0.7% to comparable sales for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, which was primarily driven by store pickup and delivery.
Gross profit rate increased 20 basis points for fiscal 2024 and decreased 85 basis points for fiscal 2023, when compared to the respective previous fiscal year.  The increase in fiscal 2024 gross profit rate was primarily due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and lapping higher net markdowns incurred in the prior year, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.  The decrease in fiscal 2023 gross profit rate was primarily due to net markdowns and product mix shifts into lower margin categories and increased supply chain costs, partially offset by price management impacts driven by cost inflation.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 9 basis points for fiscal 2024 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily driven by higher variable pay relative to last year as a result of exceeding our planned performance.  For fiscal 2023, operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 25 basis points primarily driven by strong sales growth and lower incremental COVID-19 related costs, partially offset by increased wage costs.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $1.5 billion and decreased $1.0 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
42
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2024
2023
2022
Net sales
$
114,641
$
...
%
(16.8)
%
Operating income
$
4,909
$
2,965
$
3,758
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.3
%
2.9
%
3.7
%
Unit counts at period end
5,402
5,306
5,251
Retail square feet at period end
274
273
277
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased $13.7 billion or 13.5% for fiscal 2024 and were flat for 2023, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales across our international markets and positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $3.0 billion during fiscal 2024. For fiscal 2023, net sales benefited from positive comparable sales across all of our international markets, offset by the impacts of a decrease of $5.0 billion related to the divestiture of our operations in the U.K. and Japan, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, as well as $3.7 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2023.
Gross profit rate increased 20 basis points and decreased 50 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily driven by supply chain efficiencies partially offset by ongoing format and channel shifts. For fiscal 2023, the decrease was primarily driven by continued growth in lower margin formats and channels in China and category mix shifts into lower margin categories.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 152 basis points and increased 41 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the lapping of business reorganization and restructuring charges incurred related to Flipkart and Massmart in fiscal 2023 and an increase in sales in the current year.  The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2023, was primarily due to incurring these business reorganization and restructuring charges.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $1.9 billion and decreased $0.8 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Sam's Club Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2024
2023
2022
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
86,179
$
...
%
15.1
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
2.3
%
14.6
%
15.0
%
Operating income
$
2,192
$
1,964
$
2,259
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.5
%
2.3
%
3.1
%
Unit counts at period end
599
600
600
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
75,057
$
...
%
9.6
%
Operating income
$
1,659
$
1,352
$
1,923
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.2
%
1.9
...
3.0
%
(1)
We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.  Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club segment in the future.  Management uses such information to better measure underlying operating results in the segment.
Net sales for the Sam's Club segment increased $1.8 billion or 2.2% and $10.8 billion or 14.7% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales, including fuel, of 2.3% and 14.6% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Comparable sales benefited from growth in transactions and average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Additionally, fiscal 2024 growth was partially offset by lower fuel sales due to deflation in this category. Sam's Club eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
1.7% and
0.8% to comparable sales for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, which was primarily driven by curbside pickup and ship to home.
43
Gross profit rate increased 55 basis points and decreased 155 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to the lapping of elevated markdowns in the prior year, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.  For fiscal
2023
, the decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to inventory markdowns, elevated supply chain and eCommerce fulfillment costs and inflation related LIFO charges.
Membership and other income increased 7.5% and 7.0% for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  For fiscal 2024 and 2023, the increases were primarily due to growth in membership base and Plus penetration. Fiscal 2024 was also positively impacted by higher Plus renewals, as well as the expiration of a promotional offering offsetting membership fee increases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 46 basis points and decreased 97 basis points for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.  Fiscal 2024 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to lower fuel sales and elevated technology spend. Fiscal 2023 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to higher sales.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.2 billion and decreased $0.3 billion for fiscal
2024 and
2023, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations. Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our global investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
28,841
$
24,181
Net cash provided by operating activities was $35.7 billion, $28.8 billion and $24.2 billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2024 is primarily due to higher cash provided by operating income, as well as timing of certain payments and strategic inventory management as part of working capital initiatives, partially offset by payment of the remaining accrued opioid legal charges.  The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2023, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to moderated levels of inventory purchases, partially offset by a decline in operating income and the timing of certain payments.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $9.9 billion and $8.6 billion as of January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.  Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $15.5 billion and $16.5 billion as of January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.  The decrease in our working capital deficit is primarily driven by a decrease in accrued liabilities primarily due to the payment of the remaining accrued opioid legal charges and an increase in cash, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and a decrease in inventories as part of working capital initiatives.  We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Under current law, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. We do not expect current local laws, or other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2024 and 2023, cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
44
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
(17,722)
$
(6,015)
Net cash used in investing activities was $21.3 billion, $17.7 billion and $6.0 billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and generally consisted of capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities increased $3.6 billion
for fiscal 2024 when
compared to the previous fiscal year primarily due to increased payments for property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities increased $11.7 billion for fiscal 2023 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to the result of lapping the net proceeds received from the divestitures of our operations in the U.K. and Japan and an increase in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.
Capital expenditures
Refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2024 and 2023.  For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $20 billion to $24 billion, with a focus on technology, supply chain, and customer-facing initiatives.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(17,039)
$
(22,828)
Net cash from financing activities generally consists of debt transactions, dividends paid, repurchases of Company stock and transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders.  Fiscal 2024 net cash used in financing activities decreased $3.6 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease is primarily due to fewer repurchases of Company stock, partially offset by the purchase of certain noncontrolling interests.  Fiscal 2023 net cash used in financing activities decreased $5.8 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year.  The decrease was primarily due to repayments of long-term debt and related payment of premiums for the early extinguishment of certain notes in the prior fiscal year, partially offset by the equity funding from the sale of subsidiary stock in the prior fiscal year.
Purchase and Sale of Subsidiary Stoc
k
During fiscal 2024, we paid $3.5 billion to acquire shares from certain Flipkart noncontrolling interest holders and settle the liability to former noncontrolling interest holders of PhonePe. Additionally, we received $0.7 billion related to new rounds of equity funding for the Company's majority owned PhonePe subsidiary.
During fiscal 2023, we completed a $0.4 billion buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary and completed a $0.4 billion acquisition of Alert Innovation, bringing our ownership to approximately 100% of both Massmart and Alert Innovation.
During fiscal 2022, we received $3.2 billion primarily related to a new equity funding for our majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to the our short-term borrowings for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2024
...
11,432
$
716
Average daily short-term borrowings
4,295
7,250
626
...
%
3.7
%
Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2024 and 2023 were $0.9 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, with weighted-average interest rates of 7.7% and 6.6%, respectively.  We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2024 that provide additional liquidity, if needed.  Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
As of January 31, 2024, we have $2.1 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.7 billion was drawn and represents an unrecorded current obligation.
45
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2024:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2023
$
...
34,649
$
38,840
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
4,967
4,967
Repayments of long-term debt
(4,213)
(4)
(4,217)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
3,486
(3,486)
—
...
36,132
$
39,579
Our total outstanding long-term debt increased $0.7 billion during fiscal 2024, primarily due to the issuance of new long-term debt in April 2023, partially offset by the maturities of certain long-term debt.  Refer to
Note 6
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the issuances of long-term debt.
Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $20.2 billion, with approximately $1.8 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2025. Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2024, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments.
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were $6.1 billion, $6.1 billion and $6.2 billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Effective February 20, 2024, the Company approved the fiscal 2025 annual dividend of $0.83 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2024 annual dividend of $0.76 per share.  For fiscal 2025, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.2075 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date
Payable Date
March 15, 2024
...
September 3, 2024
December 13, 2024
January 6, 2025
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.  All repurchases made during fiscal 2024 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases. As of January 31, 2024, authorization for $16.5 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program.  Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2024
2023
2022
...
54.6
221.8
209.1
Average price paid per share
$
50.87
$
44.72
$
46.82
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
2,779
$
...
$
9,787
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations.  Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases and purchase obligations.  See
Note 6
and
Note 7
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively.
As of January 31, 2024, the Company has $34.3 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $14.6 billion is due within one year.  Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and
46
utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts.  Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above.  Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods.  We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.  Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets.  As of January 31, 2024, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time.  Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time.  Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us.  In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing.  The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities.  Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
Other Matters
In
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in
Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," we discuss, under the sub-captions "
Settlement Framework Regarding Multidistrict and State or Local Opioid Related Litigation
," and "
Other Opioid Related Litigation
" the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom.  In that
Note 10
, we also discuss under the sub-caption "
Asda Equal Value Claims"
the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, under the sub-caption "
Money Transfer Agent Services Matters,
" a United States Federal Trade Commission complaint related to money transfers and the Company's anti-fraud program and a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services as well as under the sub-caption "
Mexico Antitrust Matter
," we disclose the main Mexican operating subsidiary of Wal-Mart de México was notified of the initiation of a quasi-judicial administrative process against it for alleged relative monopolistic practices in connection with the supply and wholesale distribution of certain consumer goods, retail marketing practices of such consumer goods and related services. We discuss various legal proceedings related to the Federal and State Prescription Opiate Litigation, the Settlement Framework, DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation and Opioids Related Securities Class Actions and Derivative Litigation in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
...
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "II. Certain Other Matters."  We also discuss an environmental matter with the State of California in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
...
47
matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology.  In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements.  These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes.  Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies including how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements.  Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made.  Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Uncertain Tax Positions
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.  When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate.  We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements.  Accordingly, the determination of our uncertain tax positions requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair values of certain equity and equity method investments measured on a recurring basis.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes.  The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption.  In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps.  For fiscal 2024, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $35 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
48
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.  For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted.  The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts.  The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2024.
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal 2025
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
878
...
%
7.7
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
2.7
%
(1)
Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2024, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 18% of our total short-term and long-term debt.  Based on January 31, 2024 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $0.1 billion.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments and operations in countries other than the U.S., as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt.  For fiscal 2024, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $0.3 billion net gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps.  The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2023, respectively.  The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the strengthening of certain currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2024.  The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.7 billion.  A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2024 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.1 billion.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to investment risk primarily related to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments, including certain immaterial equity method investments where we have elected the fair value option, measured on a recurring basis.  The amounts of gains and losses included in earnings from fair value changes for these investments are recorded within other gains and losses and resulted in a net loss of $3.8 billion in fiscal 2024 primarily due to net decreases in the underlying stock prices of these investments. As of January 31, 2024, the fair value of our equity investments, including certain equity method investments, measured on a recurring basis was $7.2 billion.  As of January 31, 2024, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $0.7 billion.
49
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2024
Table of Contents
...
55
Consolidated Balance Sheets
56
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
57
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
58
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
59
50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements").  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2024, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 15, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosures to which it relates.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2024, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters.  The Company records a liability for those legal proceedings and regulatory matters when management determines it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  The Company also discloses when it is reasonably possible that a material loss may be incurred.  In assessing the probability of occurrence and whether an estimate of loss can be reasonably estimated for a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment on matters relevant to each proceeding. Auditing management's accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of loss for contingencies or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
51
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies. For example, we tested controls over the Company's assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company's determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company's assessment of the probability of loss or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the board of directors and committees of the board of directors, reviewed documents provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and outside legal counsel, evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal and outside legal counsel, and obtained representations from management. We also assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures.
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
...
March 15, 2024
52
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2024, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of January 31, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2024, and the related notes and our report dated March 15, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2024
2023
2022
Revenues:
Net sales
$
642,637
$
605,881
$
567,762
Membership and other income
5,488
5,408
4,992
Total revenues
648,125
611,289
572,754
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
490,142
463,721
429,000
...
130,971
127,140
117,812
Operating income
27,012
20,428
25,942
Interest:
Debt
2,259
1,787
1,674
Finance lease
424
341
320
...
2,137
1,874
1,836
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
—
2,410
Other (gains) and losses
3,027
1,538
3,000
Income before income taxes
21,848
17,016
18,696
Provision for income taxes
5,578
5,724
4,756
Consolidated net income
16,270
11,292
13,940
...
(
267
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
15,511
$
11,680
$
13,673
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
1.92
$
1.43
$
1.63
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
1.91
1.42
1.62
...
8,077
8,171
8,376
Diluted
8,108
8,202
8,415
Dividends declared per common share
$
0.7600
$
...
2024
2023
2022
Consolidated net income
$
16,270
$
...
(
267
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
15,511
11,680
13,673
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
899
(
...
(
1,202
)
Cash flow hedges
56
(
203
...
)
5
1,974
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
944
(
2,056
...
1,652
)
3,000
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
17,214
9,236
16,710
...
Inventories
54,892
56,576
Prepaid expenses and other
3,322
2,521
Total current assets
76,877
75,655
Property and equipment, net
110,810
100,760
Operating lease right-of-use assets
13,673
13,555
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
5,855
4,919
Goodwill
28,113
28,174
Other long-term assets
...
243,197
LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST, AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
878
$
...
Accrued liabilities
28,759
31,126
Accrued income taxes
307
727
Long-term debt due within one year
3,447
4,191
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,487
1,473
Finance lease obligations due within one year
725
567
Total current liabilities
92,415
92,198
Long-term debt
36,132
34,649
Long-term operating lease obligations
12,943
12,828
Long-term finance lease obligations
5,709
4,843
Deferred income taxes and other
14,629
14,688
Commitments and contingencies
...
Capital in excess of par value
4,544
4,430
Retained earnings
89,814
83,135
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
11,680
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
83,861
76,693
Noncontrolling interest
...
See accompanying notes.
56
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Total
Shares
...
6,606
$
87,531
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
13,673
267
13,940
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
230
)
2,770
Cash dividends declared ($
0.7333
per share)
—
...
(
9,808
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
83,253
8,638
91,891
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
388
)
11,292
Other comprehensive (loss), net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
2,056
)
Cash dividends declared ($
0.7467
per share)
—
...
(
9,866
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
76,693
7,061
83,754
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
15,511
774
16,285
Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
378
566
944
Cash dividends declared ($
0.7600
per share)
—
...
(
2,791
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
57
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2024
2023
2022
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
16,270
$
11,292
$
13,940
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
11,853
10,945
10,658
Net unrealized and realized (gains) and losses
3,193
1,683
2,440
...
—
—
433
Deferred income taxes
(
175
)
...
(
755
)
Loss on extinguishment of debt
—
—
2,410
...
2,642
1,919
1,652
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
(
797
...
)
4,393
1,404
Accrued income taxes
(
468
)
...
35,726
28,841
24,181
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
20,606
)
...
(
13,106
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
250
170
394
Proceeds from disposal of certain operations, net of divested cash
135
—
7,935
...
(
6,015
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
512
(
34
)
193
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
4,967
5,041
6,945
Repayments of long-term debt
(
4,217
)
...
(
13,010
)
Premiums paid to extinguish debt
—
—
(
2,317
)
Dividends paid
(
6,140
)
...
(
9,787
)
Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(
763
)
...
8,841
$
14,834
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid
$
5,879
$
3,310
$
5,918
Interest paid
2,519
2,051
2,237
...
Note 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart" or the "Company") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce.  Through innovation, the Company is striving to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for its customers.
The Company's operations comprise
three
reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023") and January 31, 2022 ("fiscal 2022").  Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  The Company consolidates variable interest entities where it has been determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of those entities' operations.  Investments in common stock or in-substance common stock for which the Company exercises significant influence but does not have control are accounted for under the equity method.  These variable interest entities and equity method investments are immaterial to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for the United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations.  The Company consolidates all other operations generally using a one-month lag and based on a calendar year.  There were no significant intervening events during the month of January 2024 related to the operations consolidated using a lag that materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Use of Estimates
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").  Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.  Management's estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Common Stock Split
On February 23, 2024, the Company effected a
3
-for-1 forward split of its common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of authorized shares. All share and per share information, including share based compensation, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. The shares of common stock retain a par value of $
0.10
per share. Accordingly, an amount equal to the par value of the increased shares resulting from the stock split was reclassified from capital in excess of par value to common stock.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
...
60
% and
62
% were held outside of the U.S., respectively.  Cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company's non-U.S. operations.
The Company uses intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.
As of January 31, 2024 and 2023, cash and cash equivalents of approximately $
3.5
billion and $
2.9
billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws, other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
59
Receivables
Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts, and are primarily due from the following: customers, which includes pharmacy insurance companies as well as advertisers, and banks for customer credit, debit cards and electronic transfer transactions that take in excess of seven days to process; suppliers for marketing or incentive programs; governments for income taxes; and real estate transactions.
Net receivables from transactions with customers were $
3.7
billion as of January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2023.
Inventories
The Company utilizes various inventory methods to account for and value its inventories depending upon the nature of the store formats and businesses in each of its segments, resulting in inventories that are recorded at the lower of cost or market or net realizable value, as appropriate.
•
Walmart U.S. Segment - Inventories are primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting ("RIM") to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method.  RIM generally results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market as permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.
•
Walmart International Segment – Depending on the store format in each market, inventories are generally accounted for using either the RIM or weighted-average cost method, using the first-in, first-out valuation method.
•
Sam's Club Segment - The majority of this segment's inventory is accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.
For those segments that utilize the LIFO method, the Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation.  These estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end for inflation or deflation and inventory levels.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are initially recorded at cost.  Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred.  Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances and includes the estimated useful lives that are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
Estimated Useful Lives
As of January 31,
(Dollars in millions)
...
N/A
13,390
10,802
Property and equipment
219,859
202,370
Accumulated depreciation
...
(
101,610
)
Property and equipment, net
$
110,810
$
100,760
Leasehold improvements are depreciated or amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining expected lease term.
Total depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment, property under finance leases and intangible assets for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $
11.9
billion, $
10.9
billion and $
10.7
billion, respectively.
Leases
For any new or modified lease, the Company, at the inception of the contract, determines whether a contract is or contains a lease.  The Company records right-of-use ("ROU") assets and lease obligations for its finance and operating leases, which are initially recognized based on the discounted future lease payments over the term of the lease.  If the rate implicit in the Company's leases is not readily determinable, the Company's applicable incremental borrowing rate is used in calculating the present value of the sum of the lease payments.
Lease term is defined as the non-cancelable period of the lease plus any options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company has elected not to recognize ROU asset and lease obligations for its short-term leases, which are defined as leases with an initial term of 12 months or less.
For a majority of all classes of underlying assets, the Company has elected to not separate lease from non-lease components. For leases in which the lease and non-lease components have been combined, the variable lease expense includes expenses such as common area maintenance, utilities and repairs and maintenance.
60
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual store or club level.  Undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the assets' useful lives based on updated projections.  If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, any potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the related asset or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique.
Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations and is allocated to the appropriate reporting unit when acquired.  Other acquired intangible assets are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset.  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; rather, they are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired.  Definite-lived intangible assets are considered long-lived assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the periods that expected economic benefits will be provided.
Goodwill is typically assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition.  Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics.  As of January 31, 2024, the Company's reporting units consisted of Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club.  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are evaluated for impairment using either a qualitative or quantitative approach for each of the Company's reporting units.  Generally, a qualitative assessment is first performed to determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary.  If management determines, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required.  The quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed by determining the fair value of the related reporting units.  Fair value is measured based on the discounted cash flow method and relative market-based approaches.  Management has performed its evaluation and determined the fair value of each reporting unit is significantly greater than the carrying amount and, accordingly, the Company has not recorded any impairment charges related to goodwill during fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 or fiscal 2022.
The following table reflects goodwill activity, by reportable segment, for fiscal 2024 and 2023:
(Amounts in millions)
Walmart U.S.
Walmart
International
Sam's Club
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2022
...
321
$
28,113
Intangible assets are recorded in other long-term assets in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of January 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had $
4.1
billion and $
4.3
billion, respectively, in indefinite-lived intangible assets which primarily consists of acquired trade names.  There were no significant impairment charges related to intangible assets for fiscal 2024, 2023 or 2022.
Fair Value Measurement
The Company records and discloses certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities at fair value.  The fair value of an asset is the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly transaction between unrelated, knowledgeable and willing parties able to engage in the transaction.  The fair value of a liability is the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor in a transaction between such parties, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.
Refer to
Note 8
for more information.
Investments
Investments in equity securities are recorded in other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, as well as certain immaterial equity method investments where the Company has elected the fair value option, are measured on a recurring basis and recognized within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  These fair value changes, along with certain other immaterial investment activity, resulted in net losses of $
3.8
billion, $
1.7
billion and $
2.4
billion for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily due to net changes in the underlying stock prices of those investments.  Refer to
Note 8
for details.  Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are
61
carried at cost and adjusted for any observable price changes or impairments within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Investments in debt securities classified as trading are reported at fair value and adjustments in fair value are recorded within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
As of January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2023, the Company had $
1.2
billion and $
0.5
billion, respectively, in debt securities classified as trading.
Indemnification Liabilities
The Company has provided certain indemnifications in connection with its divestitures and has recorded indemnification liabilities equal to the estimated fair value of the obligations upon inception.
As of January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2023, the Company had $
0.7
billion and $
0.6
billion, respectively, of certain legal indemnification liabilities recorded within deferred income taxes and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The maximum of potential future payments under these indemnities was $
3.2
billion, based on exchange rates as of January 31, 2024.
Supplier Financing Program Obligations
...
30
and
90
days.  The Company does not have an economic interest in a supplier's participation in the program or a direct financial relationship with the financial institution funding the program.  The Company is responsible for ensuring that participating financial institutions are paid according to the terms negotiated with the supplier, regardless of whether the supplier elects to receive early payment from the financial institution.  The outstanding payment obligations to financial institutions under these programs were $
5.3
billion and $
5.2
billion, as of  January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2023, respectively.  These obligations are generally classified as
accounts payable
within the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The activity related to these programs is classified as an operating activity within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Self Insurance Reserves
The Company self-insures a number of risks, including, but not limited to, workers' compensation, general liability, auto liability, product liability and certain employee-related healthcare benefits.  Standard actuarial procedures and data analysis are used to estimate the liabilities associated with these risks on an undiscounted basis.  The recorded liabilities reflect the ultimate cost for claims incurred but not paid and any estimable administrative run-out expenses related to the processing of these outstanding claim payments.  On a regular basis, the liabilities are evaluated for appropriateness with claims reserve valuations.  To limit exposure to some risks, the Company maintains insurance coverage with varying limits and retentions, including stop-loss insurance coverage for workers' compensation, general liability and auto liability.
Derivatives
The Company uses derivatives for hedging purposes to manage its exposure to changes in interest and currency exchange rates, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed- and variable-rate debt.  Use of derivatives in hedging programs subjects the Company to certain risks, such as market and credit risks.  The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by its counterparties to derivatives.  Credit risk is monitored through established approval procedures, including setting concentration limits by counterparty, reviewing credit ratings and requiring collateral from the counterparty.  The Company enters into derivatives with counterparties rated generally "A-" or better by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The Company is subject to master netting arrangements which provides set-off and close-out netting of exposures with counterparties, but the Company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities in its Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The Company's collateral arrangements require the counterparty in a net liability position in excess of pre-determined thresholds, after considering the effects of netting arrangements, to pledge cash collateral. Cash collateral received from counterparties and cash collateral provided to counterparties under these arrangement
s was not significant
as of January 31, 2024 and 2023.
62
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge.  If a derivative is recorded using hedge accounting, depending on the nature of the hedge, derivative gains and losses are recorded through the same financial statement line item in earnings or are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, or contracts for which the Company has not elected hedge accounting, are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in earnings.  Derivatives with an unrealized gain are recorded in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as either current or non-current assets, based on maturity date, and derivatives with an unrealized loss are recorded as either current or non-current liabilities, based on maturity date.  Refer to
Note 8
for the presentation of the Company's derivative assets and liabilities.
Fair Value Hedges
The Company is a party to receive fixed-rate, pay variable-rate interest rate swaps that the Company uses to hedge the fair value of fixed-rate debt.  All interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of the related long-term debt meet the shortcut method requirements under U.S. GAAP.  Accordingly, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps are considered to exactly offset changes in the fair value of the underlying long-term debt.  These derivatives will mature on dates ranging from April 2024 to September 2031.
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company is a party to receive fixed-rate, pay fixed-rate cross currency interest rate swaps used to hedge the currency exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of certain non-U.S. denominated debt.  The Company records changes in the fair value of these swaps in accumulated other comprehensive loss which is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.  These derivatives will mature on dates ranging from July 2024 to January 2039.
Net Investment Hedges
Prior to the divestiture of the Company's operations in the United Kingdom and Japan as discussed in
Note 12
, the Company was a party to receive fixed-rate, pay fixed-rate cross currency interest rate swaps used to hedge the currency exposure associated with net investments of these foreign operations.  Changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  The Company also previously designated certain foreign currency denominated long-term debt as a hedge of currency exposure associated with the net investment of these divested operations and recorded foreign currency gain or loss associated with designated long-term debt in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  Upon closing of the sale of the Company's operations in the U.K. and Japan during the first quarter of fiscal 2022, these amounts were released from accumulated other comprehensive loss as discussed in
Note 4
.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the balance sheet method.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases ("temporary differences").  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized.  Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods, and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors.  The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies.  These sources of income rely on estimates.
In determining the provision for income taxes, an annual effective income tax rate is used based on annual income, permanent differences between book and tax income, and statutory income tax rates.  Discrete events such as audit settlements or changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which they occur.
The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  The Company records interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively, in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.  Refer to
Note 9
for additional income tax disclosures.
63
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest
Noncontrolling interests that are redeemable outside the Company's control at fixed or determinable prices and dates are presented as temporary equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are recorded at the greater of the redemption fair value or the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest and adjusted each reporting period for income, loss and any distributions made. Remeasurements to the redemption value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest are recognized in capital in excess of par.  As of January 31, 2024, the Company has a redeemable noncontrolling interest related to an acquisition in the Walmart U.S. segment as the minority interest owner holds a put option which may require the Company to purchase its interest beginning in December 2027, with annual options thereafter.
Revenue Recognition
Net Sales
The Company recognizes sales revenue, net of sales taxes and estimated sales returns, at the time it sells merchandise or services to the customer.  eCommerce sales include shipping revenue and are recorded upon delivery to the customer.  Estimated sales returns are calculated based on expected returns.
Membership Fee Revenue
The Company recognizes membership fee revenue over the term of the membership, which is typically 12 months.  Membership fee revenue was $
3.1
billion for fiscal 2024, $
2.6
billion for fiscal 2023 and $
2.2
billion for fiscal 2022.  Membership fee revenue is included in membership and other income in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.  Deferred membership fee revenue is included in accrued liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Gift Cards
Customer purchases of gift cards are not recognized as sales until the card is redeemed and the customer purchases merchandise using the gift card.  Gift cards in the U.S. and some countries do not carry an expiration date; therefore, customers and members can redeem their gift cards for merchandise and services indefinitely.  Gift cards in some countries where the Company does business have expiration dates.  While gift cards are generally redeemed within 12 months, a certain number of gift cards, both with and without expiration dates, will not be fully redeemed.  Management estimates unredeemed balances and recognizes revenue for these amounts in membership and other income in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income over the expected redemption period.
Financial, Advertising and Other Services
The Company recognizes revenue from service transactions at the time the service is performed.  Generally, revenue from services is classified as a component of net sales in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.
Cost of Sales
Cost of sales includes actual product cost, the cost of transportation to the Company's distribution facilities, stores and clubs from suppliers, the cost of transportation from the Company's distribution facilities to the stores, clubs and customers and the cost of warehousing for the Sam's Club segment and import distribution centers.  Cost of sales is reduced by supplier payments that are not a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs.
Payments from Suppliers
The Company receives consideration from suppliers for various programs, primarily volume incentives, warehouse allowances and reimbursements for specific programs such as markdowns, margin protection, certain advertising arrangements and supplier-specific fixtures.  Payments from suppliers are accounted for as a reduction of cost of sales and recognized in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold, except in certain limited situations when the payment is a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs.
[Total relevant lines: 4425]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2024 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2025-03-14.html)
================================================================================
xbrli:shares
iso4217:USD
xbrli:shares
wmt:segment
xbrli:pure
iso4217:JPY
iso4217:EUR
...
wmt:case
wmt:classAction
wmt:securitiesClassAction
wmt:shareholder
wmt:derivativeAction
wmt:pharmacist
wmt:employee
wmt:phase
wmt:supplierContribution
iso4217:MXN
...
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
...
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
...
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel12And3Member
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
srt:MaximumMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:PhonePeMember
...
wmt:RestrictedStockAndPerformanceShareAwardsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EmployeeStockOptionMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ShareRepurchaseProgram2022Member
...
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2022-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedGainLossNetCashFlowHedgeParentMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FiveYearCreditFacilityMember
...
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2026Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2026Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3900DebtDue2028Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A3900DebtDue2028Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4000DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4100DebtDue2033Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4100DebtDue2033Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4500DebtDue2053Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-04-18
0000104169
wmt:A4500DebtDue2053Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.30Debt1500MillionDueApril2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.30Debt1500MillionDueApril2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.85Debt990MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.85Debt990MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A0.298Debt40000MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A0.298Debt40000MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.650Debt630MillionDueDecember2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.650Debt630MillionDueDecember2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2550DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2550DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3400DebtDue2023Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
...
2024-08-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2044Member
...
2025-01-31
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:CanadaOpioidsClassActionComplaintsMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
...
0000104169
2025-01-09
0000104169
wmt:AsdaEqualValueClaimsMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoAntitrustMatterMember
us-gaap:PendingLitigationMember
2024-12-12
0000104169
wmt:MexicoAntitrustMatterMember
us-gaap:PendingLitigationMember
2024-12-12
2024-12-12
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:NonUsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2022-02-01
2023-01-31
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2024, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2024, was $
297,576,699,886
. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2025 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
14
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
47
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
49
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
82
Item 11
Executive Compensation
82
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
82
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
82
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2025
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 5, 2025 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Exchange Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals. These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
macroeconomic, geopolitical, and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which we operate, including inflation or deflation, generally, and in certain product categories, the impact of supply chain challenges, tariffs and recessionary pressures;
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future, or in or over particular periods, both generally, and with respect to particular markets, segments or lines of business, including, but not limited to, advertising, fulfillment, healthcare and financial services;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, growth rates, comparable store and club sales, our eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, including share-based compensation, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store and club openings, inventory levels and associated costs, product mix and demand for certain merchandise, consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns and debt levels;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology (including the use of artificial intelligence "AI" and generative AI), automation, supply chain, new stores and clubs as well as remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our workforce strategy, including the availability of necessary personnel to staff our stores, clubs and other facilities and the potential impact of changes to the costs of labor;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our consolidated, or one or more of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets or credit will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•
the adoption or creation of new, and modification of existing, governmental policies, programs, initiatives and actions in the markets in which we operate and elsewhere and actions with respect to such policies, programs and initiatives (including, but not limited to, changes in the enforcement priorities of regulatory authorities);
4
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•
the effect on our results of operations or financial position of our adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to our shared value priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make. The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "should," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings. Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. Each week, we serve approximately 270 million customers who visit more than 10,750 stores and numerous eCommerce websites in 19 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"). EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. Our discussion is as of, and for the fiscal years ended, January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025"), January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024") and January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"). During fiscal 2025, we generated total revenues of $681.0 billion, which primarily comprised net sales of $674.5 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores, at which time we began to open discount stores. We completed our initial public offering in 1970. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market. In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2025, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 18 countries.
In 1996, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com. Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow. In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site-to-Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. To date, we now have over 8,000 pickup and delivery locations globally. In 2018, we expanded our eCommerce and digital presence through acquisitions with our majority stakes in Flipkart and PhonePe in India. We continue to heavily invest in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, which enables us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, and expand our assortment and service offerings.
We are enhancing our omni-channel capabilities through a combination of stores, eCommerce websites and service offerings, as well as our supply chain, combined with approximately 2.1 million associates as of January 31, 2025, to better serve our customers. Together, these elements produce a global retail ecosystem that we believe allows customers to view Walmart as their primary retail destination. In the U.S., our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members. As we execute on our strategy globally, our business is expanding through offerings such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, and financial services. These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our omni-channel model centered on our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S., which are further described below. Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently. However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in
Note 12
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
6
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates 4,605 stores in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, including walmart.com. Walmart U.S. had net sales of $462.4 billion for fiscal 2025, representing 69% of our fiscal 2025 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $441.8 billion and $420.6 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Omni-channel.
Walmart U.S. provides a convenient and seamless omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce. Substantially all our stores provide same-day pickup and delivery, including offerings such as express delivery within 90 minutes, in-home delivery and digital pharmacy fulfillment options. Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omni-channel shopping benefits including unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, mobile Scan & Go and access to additional member benefits. The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2025:
Minimum Square Feet
Maximum Square Feet
Average Square Feet
Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)
69,000
260,000
178,000
Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)
30,000
206,000
105,000
Neighborhood markets
(1)
(grocery)
28,000
65,000
42,000
(1)
Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise and Other Offerings.
Walmart U.S. does business primarily in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli and bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Fashion (e.g., apparel for adults and children, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed and bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, and optical services.
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S. We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "bettergoods," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Better Homes & Gardens," "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara," and "The Pioneer Woman."
Other offerings in the Walmart U.S. business include in-house advertising for brands and online marketplace sellers, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers, and data analytics and insights for merchants and suppliers.
Additional offerings include fuel, financial services and related products such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment and certain types of installment lending.
Distribution.
We continue to invest in supply chain automation and utilize a total of 164 distribution facilities which are located strategically throughout the U.S. For fiscal 2025, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations by leveraging our ability to deliver directly from stores and shipping from our 29 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers.
7
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operates 5,566 stores across 18 countries outside of the U.S. Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, China, and Africa (which includes Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, and Zambia), and our majority-owned subsidiaries in India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua).
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale. These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, warehouse clubs (including our membership-only Sam's Club format) and cash and carry, as well as eCommerce through websites and mobile applications, including walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com, PhonePe and other sites. Walmart International had net sales of $121.9 billion for fiscal 2025, representing 18% of our fiscal 2025 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $114.6 billion and $101.0 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Walmart International's strategy is to bring Walmart to the world and the world to Walmart, which means we help millions of customers and members save money and live better every day by leveraging our global ecosystem and deep local expertise to provide access to affordable products and services. In addition, we share what we learn in our markets to help the enterprise innovate and grow even faster. We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•
Bought out the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary in November 2022 and exited operations in certain countries in Africa.
•
Increased our ownership in PhonePe, our digital payments platform in India, as part of the separation from Flipkart in December 2022.
•
Sold our equity investment in JD.com in August 2024.
Omni-channel.
Walmart International provides a convenient and seamless omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through our pickup and delivery services in most of our markets, including same-day delivery. We continue to expand our marketplace offerings, which also further unlocks fulfillment and advertising services.
Generally, retail units' selling areas range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores' selling areas generally range in size from 25,000 square feet to 158,000 square feet. As of January 31, 2025, Walmart International had approximately 2,900 pickup and delivery locations.
Merchandise and Other Offerings.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera" and "Lider." In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to build mutually reinforcing businesses in areas such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, financial services and healthcare. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money transfers, and our PhonePe business in India continues to grow, providing a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising. In Mexico, we also offer a value-based internet and telephone service enhancing customer experiences through digital connectivity.
Distribution.
We utilize a total of 184 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and Africa. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2025, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers, which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live.
8
Sam's Club U.S. Segment
Sam's Club U.S. is a membership-only club that operates 600 clubs in 44 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and also operates samsclub.com. Sam's Club U.S. had net sales of $90.2 billion for fiscal 2025, representing 13% of our consolidated fiscal 2025 net sales, and had net sales of $86.2 billion and $84.3 billion for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. As a membership-only club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.
Membership.
The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership
Club Membership
Annual Membership Fee
$110
$50
Number of Add-on Memberships ($45 each)
Up to 16
Up to 8
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. Club members are eligible for free curbside pickup with orders of $50 or greater. Plus members receive free curbside pickup, free delivery-from-club and free shipping on orders of $50 or greater, exclusive discounts and convenience offers, and the ability to shop before regular shopping hours. Beginning in fiscal 2023, Sam's Club U.S. launched a rewards program through which members may earn Sam's Cash on purchases that can be redeemed for cash, used for purchases, or used to pay membership fees.
Omni-channel.
Sam's Club U.S. provides a fast and seamless omni-channel experience to members, integrating physical clubs and eCommerce. Curbside pickup provides fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members; Scan & Go mobile checkout and payment solution allows members to bypass the checkout line; and Just Go, launched in fiscal 2025, provides members with a friction-free exit experience. The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 94,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise.
Sam's Club U.S. offers merchandise in the following four merchandise categories:
•
Grocery consists of dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
General merchandise includes home, hardlines and seasonal items (such as home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys and mattresses), as well as technology and entertainment items (such as consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances and third-party gift cards);
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services, over-the-counter drugs; and protein and nutrition; and
•
Fuel and other categories.
Within the categories above, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand its assortment and deliver member value. Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Distribution.
Sam's Club U.S. utilizes 31 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the U.S., as well as some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities which service the Sam's Club U.S. segment for certain items. Sam's Club U.S. uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport perishable and non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. During fiscal 2025, the majority of Sam's Club U.S.'s non-fuel club purchases were shipped from these facilities, while the remainder of our purchases were shipped directly to Sam's Club U.S. locations by suppliers. Sam's Club U.S. ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 14 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
9
Other Information
Competition.
We compete with brick and mortar, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocery, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, and supercenter-type stores, membership-only warehouse clubs, gasoline stations, social commerce platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services. Our ability to develop and effectively operate different formats at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position in the retail industry within the markets where we operate. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition. Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers and greater brand recognition. They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise and selection availability, services offered to customers, the quality of the products and services we offer, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations. We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These strategies include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served; and
•
Expanding our ecosystem and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services to provide our customers a broader set of offerings to meet expanding needs.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Our business is seasonal to a certain extent and varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, our highest sales volume for each segment has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.
Suppliers and Supply Chain.
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. Consistent with applicable laws, we offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers. Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Intellectual Property.
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent laws, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Government Regulation.
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks."
10
Our Shared Value Priorities
We seek to operate our business in a way that creates shared value: We believe we maximize long-term value and create competitive advantage for the Company by delivering for our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, business partners and communities. We believe that addressing their needs builds the value of our business, including by enhancing trust, creating new business opportunities, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future advantage and strengthening the underlying systems on which we rely.
We prioritize issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create long-term shared value: Issues that rank high in relevance to our business, importance to building and maintaining stakeholder trust and in which Walmart has the ability to be an effective actor. Our current priorities are categorized into four broad themes: opportunity, sustainability, community and ethics and integrity.
•
Opportunity
. We believe that promoting economic opportunity helps Walmart attract and retain the talent we need to run our business, respond to customer needs, and promote economic resilience in the places where we operate. Our approach includes creating opportunities for Walmart associates (as further described in the Human Capital Management section below), our suppliers, workers in supply chains and the communities we serve. We offer good entry-level jobs in addition to multiple career pathways; endeavor to cultivate a culture of belonging—rooted in respect for the individual—where associates and customers feel seen, supported and connected; and provide tens of thousands of local, national and global suppliers the opportunity to grow with us.
•
Sustainability
. Walmart's sustainability efforts endeavor to create and preserve long-term business value through increasing the efficiency and resilience of our operations, promoting surety of supply, sourcing responsibly and enhancing our product assortment. With respect to people, we aim to respect the dignity of people throughout our supply chain, create economic opportunity for people working in supply chains, and sell safer, healthier products. With respect to the environment, our efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains; preserve, protect, and restore nature; reduce waste; procure renewable sources of energy; and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
•
Community
. We believe that Walmart thrives in strong, resilient communities, and we endeavor to help communities thrive. We aim to strengthen communities
by providing convenient access to affordable, quality goods and services through our omni-channel retail model and everyday low prices; contributing to the economic vitality of communities by providing quality jobs, training and career paths; investing in local suppliers; and supporting organizations and causes that matter to our customers and associates.
•
Ethics and Integrity
. We believe that people want to work for and do business with a company they can trust, and Walmart works to
create a culture that inspires trust with our stakeholders. We seek to achieve this, by focusing on promoting ethics and compliance, governance and oversight, responsibly engaging in public policy activities, using data and technology responsibly and respecting human rights.
We periodically publish information on our shared value priorities, strategies, progress, and challenges on the
environmental, social and governance ("
ESG") reporting section of our corporate website and may update those disclosures from time to time. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC.
Human Capital Management
Our associates – powered by technology – play a critical role in delivering on our purpose to help people save money and live better. Our business is focused on serving people and this is delivered by our approximately 2.1 million associates around the world with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.5 million associates internationally. In the U.S., approximately 92% of our associates are hourly and approximately 68% of our associates are full-time.
We believe our people make the difference, and we are focused on investing in the growth and well-being of our associates, investing in digital experiences to improve their quality of work and creating a culture of belonging. An important part of our focus is to provide opportunities for associates to grow and learn. For some, we are a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers. We are focused on developing, rewarding and retaining associates in an ever-changing environment. Our people ultimately make Walmart a better place to work and a better place to shop. Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities: belonging, well-being, growth and digital.
Belonging
-
Focus on creating a workplace where all associates feel seen, supported and connected through a culture of belonging.
We publish our workforce representation and hold ourselves accountable to providing recurring belonging updates to senior leadership – including our President and CEO – and members of the Board of Directors. Of the approximately 2.1 million associates employed worldwide, 51% are women. In the U.S., 51% of the approximately 1.6 million associates are people of color.
11
Our Belonging focus aims to create opportunities for everyone, so that every eligible and qualified individual can thrive and perform. We regularly review our processes around fair-pay practices and are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance and the work they do.
To build a company where associates feel seen, supported and connected, we gather and respond to associate feedback in a variety of ways, including in-person dialogue; leadership visits and listening sessions; surveys like our associate engagement survey and monthly pulse surveys; and always-on confidential channels, including our Open Door processes and ethics channels.
Well-being
-
Prioritize the emotional, physical and financial well-being of associates.
We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages, as well as a broad range of benefits to meet the diverse needs of our global associate population and their eligible dependents. In the U.S., this includes company-paid benefits such as 401(k) match, family building benefits, maternity leave, fertility benefits, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance, medical coverage (including supporting associates with a U.S. Medical Plan with free virtual visits for medical doctor urgent care), behavioral and mental health services (including virtual care with psychiatrists and psychologists), a Walmart discount card or Sam's Club membership and predictable scheduling that helps associates plan for life outside of work and know what to expect in their paychecks.
Additional information about how we invest in our associates' well-being, including wage structure and pay, can be found in the Our People brief in our most recent ESG reporting, which is available on our corporate website. Nothing on our website, including our ESG reporting documents, or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC. Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 11
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Growth
-
Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills.
We are invested in the growth of our associates – in support of our business and their success – by offering good entry-level jobs in addition to multiple career pathways that lead to great careers and better lives.
Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions. Our focus on providing a path of opportunity for our associates through robust training, competitive wages and benefits and career mobility creates a strong associate value proposition and strengthens our workforce. In the U.S., we seek to enable these pathways through programs like Walmart Academy, Live Better U ("LBU"), and other various associate training programs. Walmart Academy offers training for on-the-job retail skills, leadership and well-being, serving our associates through a combination of digital and in-person offerings. Additionally, our LBU program provides access to educational opportunities for our eligible part-time and full-time associates in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, allowing associates the opportunity to learn critical skills in order to promote into in-demand jobs within the company through high school diplomas, short-form certificates and credentials or college degrees.
Digital
-
Drive a digital transformation that improves the associate experience and powers the business
. To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in consumer-grade digital tools designed to improve associate productivity, efficiency, engagement, and performance — and these capabilities have been expanded to some international markets. This allows associates to share real-time feedback and spend more time generating new ideas, developing strategy, and building relationships.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. We file with, or furnish to, the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
12
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by, and serves at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
53
Rachel Brand
Executive Vice President, Global Governance, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, effective April 2018. From May 2017 to February 2018, she served as Associate Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.
2018
51
David M. Chojnowski
Senior Vice President and Controller effective January 2017. From October 2014 to January 2017, he served as Vice President and Controller, Walmart U.S.
2017
55
John Furner
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. effective November 2019. From February 2017 until November 2019, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club U.S.
2019
50
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC.
2019
60
Kathryn McLay
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective August 2023. From 2019 to 2023, she served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club U.S.
From February 2019 to November 2019, she served as Executive Vice President, Walmart U.S. Neighborhood Markets. From December 2015 until February 2019, she served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain.
2023
51
C. Douglas McMillon
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2014. From February 2009 to January 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International.
2014
58
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020. From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
57
Christopher Nicholas
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club U.S. effective September 2023.
From October 2021 to September 2023, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S. From February 2021 until October 2021, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Walmart U.S. From January 2020 until February 2021, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Walmart International. He joined the Company in August 2018 as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Walmart International.
2023
48
John David Rainey
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 2022. From September 2015 to June 2022, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations for PayPal Holdings, Inc.
2022
54
13
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve with consumers embracing the digital shopping experience and expecting a robust online marketplace of goods available for purchase and delivery. As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, including the use of artificial intelligence ("AI") and generative AI technologies (which continues to grow and evolve within our Company), talent, supply chain automation and enhancements, advertising, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings and sustain the current pace of remodels. The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and interconnected ecosystem for our customers that deepens and maintains our relationships with our customers across our various businesses and partnerships and reinforces our overall enterprise strategy.
The success of this strategy is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. With the interconnected components of this enterprise strategy and an increasing allocation of capital expenditures focused on these initiatives, changes in customer or member perceptions about our reputation in general, or our failure to successfully execute on individual components of this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance, which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets. In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain investments in eCommerce, technology, talent and automation, including any operating losses incurred for those initiatives, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our reputation, relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns, tastes and preferences. The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and services and the competitive environment. Our business is dependent on our ability to make critical decisions and predictions with respect to merchandise categories that quickly respond to changing consumer spending patterns, tastes and preferences, and any incorrect calculations by us may result in lower sales, spoilage and inventory markdowns, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to predict and adapt to changing tastes and preferences depends on many factors, including obtaining accurate and relevant data on customer preferences, emphasizing relevant merchandise categories, effectively managing our inventory levels, and implementing competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies. Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. We must continue to preserve our reputation, which is impacted by public perceptions and customer experiences. It may be difficult to address negative publicity across media channels, regardless of whether it is accurate. Negative incidents, including the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft, misuse of AI technologies or a data breach as a result of a cyberattack could quickly erode trust and confidence in our business and could result in consumer boycotts, workforce unrest and government investigations. These incidents may involve us, our vendors that handle our data or personal information, our workforce or others with whom we do business, including third-party service providers and independent contractors. Societal expectations, preferences, trends and political expression are ever-changing and we try to adapt, evolve and maintain a balance that meets the acceptance of our customers, members, associates, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders, but we may not always move as quickly or in the direction that various competing interests desire or demand, which could impact our reputation. For instance, strong opinions continue to be publicly expressed both for
14
and against diversity, equity and inclusion and ESG initiatives and positions taken by many corporations, including Walmart, are tracked, monitored and subject to heightened scrutiny from consumers, investors, advocacy groups and public figures, potentially leading to consumer boycotts, negative publicity campaigns, litigation and reputational harm. Negative reputational incidents or negative perceptions of us could adversely impact our business and results of operations, including through lower sales, the termination of business relationships and negative impacts to associate retention and recruiting efforts. Moreover, failure to adequately predict customer demand and consumer spending patterns or otherwise optimize and operate our distribution and fulfillment centers could result in excess or insufficient inventory, service interruptions and increased costs, any of which could significantly harm our business. As we continue to add new fulfillment centers, our fulfillment and technology networks become increasingly complex and operating them in a way that effectively meets consumer demands continues to be challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our networks effectively.
We face strong competition from other retailers, wholesale club operators, omni-channel retailers and other businesses which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omni-channel retailers, social commerce platforms, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, data analytics/insights, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services. The omni-channel retail landscape is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and the entry of new, well-funded competitors may increase competitive pressures. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, quality and accessibility of data for customers, suppliers, and associates, and cost, speed of and options for accurate delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail and other markets in which we operate, omni-channel innovations and omni-channel ecosystems developed by our competitors or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance. See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, economics or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, competitive omni-channel ecosystems or reductions in operations may result in competitors with improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations or alliances could allow these companies to provide a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher interest rates, higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, increased costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in GDP and consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of export and import restrictions, tariffs, trade barriers or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S., or in any of the other markets in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to any one or more markets with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales, growth rates, operating income and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, including energy prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing
15
goods in the volume typically available to us for sale, or adversely impact product margins due to higher labor and material costs of our suppliers that we are unable, or choose not, to pass on to our customers.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business. These arrangements (such as ONE, our fintech venture) may not generate the level of sales or profitability we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
Global or regional health pandemics or epidemics could negatively impact our business, financial position and results of operations.
The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional pandemics, epidemics or other health crises are uncertain and difficult to predict. A pandemic, epidemic or contagious disease outbreak that affects humans or the food supply, such as the avian flu impact on poultry and egg production could impact our business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, the extent and duration of measures to try to contain the spread of a virus or other disease (such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, limitations on large gatherings, business and government shutdowns and other restrictions on retailers), our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation and our financial performance, among other things. In the event of any global or regional health crisis, customer demand for certain products may fluctuate, customer behaviors may change and consumer disposable income could be negatively impacted, which may challenge our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
To the extent that a future pandemic, epidemic or contagious disease outbreak occurs, such events may also heighten other risks described in this Item 1A, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, and litigation and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, catastrophic and other events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Natural disasters, weather conditions, geopolitical tensions and other catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. These may include extreme weather-related events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, typhoons, floods, wildfires, cyclones, tornadoes, winter storms, droughts, and extreme temperatures, any of which may be exacerbated by a changing climate, as well as other natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis. Moreover, geopolitical tensions or events; and catastrophic and other events, such as war, civil unrest (including theft, looting or vandalism), terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores), or the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft in countries in which we operate, in which our suppliers are located or regions goods are transported from or through, or in other areas of the world (such as in Ukraine and Israel, armed hostilities in the Red Sea and surrounding areas through which ocean carrier vessels travel to the Suez Canal and delays that have occurred traversing the Panama Canal resulting from drought) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Protecting the safety of our associates, including our senior leaders, is critical to preventing business disruption and executing on our business strategies and objectives.
Any of the events described above could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise), temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers or disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating and could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. In fiscal 2025, Hurricanes Helene and Milton impacted our stores, operations and supply chains in the Southeastern U.S., although such events did not materially impact our consolidated financial performance. Moreover, these disasters and events can negatively impact consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our
16
stores, increases in the costs of procuring products as a result of either reduced availability or economic sanctions, increased transportation costs (whether due to fuel prices, fuel supply or otherwise), the disruption (whether directly or indirectly) of critical infrastructure systems, banking systems, utility services or energy availability to our stores, clubs and our facilities and the disruption in our communications with our stores, clubs and our other facilities.
Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions, drought or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) may be widespread and are unpredictable. Certain impacts of physical risk may include: temperature changes that increase the heating and cooling costs at stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers; extreme weather patterns that affect the production or sourcing of certain commodities; flooding and extreme storms that damage or destroy our buildings and inventory; disruption of electrical grids or utilities required to operate our stores, clubs and information systems; and heat and extreme weather events that cause long-term disruption or threats to the habitability of the communities in which we operate. Relative to transition risk, certain impacts may include: changes in energy and commodity prices driven by climate-related weather events; prolonged climate-related events affecting macroeconomic conditions with related effects on consumer spending and confidence; stakeholder perception of our engagement in climate-related policies; and new regulatory requirements resulting in higher compliance risk and operational costs.
We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers; theft, loss or spoilage of inventory; and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, our operations in the U.S. comprise a significant portion of our financial and operational performance. Therefore, any of the above matters that uniquely impact or are specifically concentrated in the U.S. could materially adversely affect our financial and operational performance
.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, are significant challenges, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
Political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances (such as we previously experienced (and could experience again) with the pandemic recovery related challenges, including supply chain disruption and production, labor shortages and increases in labor costs) in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located or regions goods are transported from or through, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers not having the financial ability or capacity to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us if called upon, thereby exposing us to the full cost of risks and claims, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, extreme weather events impacting the growing, manufacturing, mining and harvesting of commodities and products, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs and other facilities, including as a result of extreme weather or labor slowdowns and/or strikes at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.
In addition, U.S. and international trade policies, tariffs, trade barriers and other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods, trade sanctions imposed between certain countries and entities, the limitation on the exportation or importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers, our access to products and our access to service providers (such as transportation and logistics providers) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
If the quality or safety of products we sell in stores or online fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries caused by a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with quality products at an affordable price. Occasionally, the quality of products that we source from our suppliers fails to meet customer expectations. In many cases, these products are subject to regulatory action or recall. For general merchandise, this could be because the product fails to meet safety standards. For food products, it could be because the product is a source of foodborne illness. For health and wellness products, it could be because the product does not produce the expected result for the customer or harms the customer. Any of these factors could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to choose to buy products from a different retailer, even if the quality issue is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. When a
17
product we sell does not meet quality or safety standards, there is an increased risk of liability for harm the product may cause our customers. While we rely on our suppliers to meet our safety and quality expectations, and to indemnify us if their products do not, certain suppliers may not have the financial capacity or ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. In that case, we may be exposed to the full cost of liability claims. Any issue regarding the quality or safety of products we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.
If the quality or safety of products offered for sale on our third-party marketplace fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could be held directly liable, lose customers, become subject to regulatory enforcement or otherwise experience reputational harm.
Some of the products customers buy from our website are sold by third parties, which we refer to as marketplace transactions. While that transaction ultimately occurs between the third-party seller and the customer, some regulators and courts have taken a view that the retailer is responsible for marketplace transactions that occur on a retailer's digital platform. Unsettled law on whether a retailer is responsible for intellectual property or product liability claims related to marketplace transactions creates additional risk. Any unfavorable changes or legal interpretations could further expose us to liability. Our arrangements with our third-party marketplace sellers are complex and we may not be able to implement, maintain and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, content and engaging other third parties to perform services.
In addition, poor quality or safety of third-party products offered for sale on our platforms could erode customer trust, leading to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position. In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability for third-party products offered for sale on our platform that are controversial, counterfeit, pirated or stolen or that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may not be able to collect sufficient damages for these types of breaches from third-party sellers. Furthermore, even if we are successful in negotiating a contractual shift in risk of loss to third parties, a regulator may view us as having responsibility for regulatory compliance of the third-party products offered for sale on our platform. Although we have marketplace compliance controls in place and impose contractual terms on sellers to prohibit sales of non-compliant products, we may not be able prevent sellers from offering prohibited items for sale, enforce such terms or fully protect against regulatory risk. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth and enterprise strategy.
We rely extensively on information and financial systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security incidents and breaches from a variety of threat actors, including both cybercriminals and nation state-sponsored actors, catastrophic events such as wildfires, major or extended winter storms, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, utility outages, usage errors by our associates or contractors and civil or political unrest or armed hostilities. The availability of our information systems and the integrity of data are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, breached, attacked, interrupted or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. Any interruption to the availability of our information systems or corruption of our data may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, the cost of securing our systems against failure or attack is considerable, and increases in these costs, particularly in the wake of a breach or failure, could be significant.
In addition, we frequently update our information technology hardware, software, processes and systems. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. If we fail to timely or successfully integrate and update our information systems and processes, system disruptions may occur and we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be negatively impacted.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online and enable us to deliver products and services do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. We use social media, online advertising and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. Omni-channel
18
retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world, and we continue to make investments in supply chain automation and enhancements to support our omni-channel strategy. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. We continue to invest in AI and generative AI technologies to enhance our customers’ shopping experience and our associate work experience and to improve efficiencies of our supply chain, operations, management functions and talent recruitment and development; however, these are evolving technologies and there are inherent operational and legal complexities associated with implementation of these technologies within our business. When integrating and introducing AI and generative AI technologies into our platforms, processes and systems, we may be exposed to new or expanded liabilities and risks due to elevated governmental scrutiny and monitoring, litigation, data privacy risks and compliance issues in a disparate and at times conflicting regulatory environment, all of which could negatively affect our financial performance and business reputation.
Some of the various technology systems and services on which we rely are provided and managed by an increasing number of third-party service providers. To the extent either our or such other third-party systems and services do not perform or function as anticipated, whether because of an inherent flaw in the technology, faulty implementation or a cybersecurity incident, such failure can significantly interfere with our ability to meet our customers' changing expectations. Any disruption or failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly and secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise and services at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology in a cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Any failure to maintain the privacy or security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates, business partners and vendors, whether as a result of cyberattacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, result in fines, penalties, and liability, cause us to incur substantial additional costs and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we process in our information systems personal information and/or payment information about our customers and members, and we also process information concerning our associates and vendors. In addition, our health and wellness business operations and third-party service providers who handle information on our behalf store and maintain protected health information. Further, we recently acquired VIZIO Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries, which collects certain consumer data, including certain television viewing data. Some of this information is stored digitally in connection with the digital platforms and technologies that we use to conduct and facilitate our various businesses. We utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, compute capacity, medical record documentation, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support and other functions. Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates, business partners or vendors. In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for disrupting or obtaining access to information systems or information stored in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases, they may lead to successful attacks. Unauthorized activities directed against information systems and devices, whether our own or those of our third-party service providers and vendors, have resulted in cybersecurity incidents, including malware, ransomware, denial of service attacks or phishing incidents. We expect that our information systems and those of our third-party service providers, vendors and suppliers will continue to experience such attacks in the future, which could include disruptions to our supply chain system. Cyberattacks and threat actors can be sponsored by particular nation-states, or be the work of sophisticated criminal organizations, insiders (including our associates or contractors) or third parties, each with a wide-range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience incidents and threats to data and information systems. These incidents and threats have included and are likely to continue to include both random and targeted cyberattacks, computer viruses, phishing incidents, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. The use of remote work infrastructure in recent years has also increased the possible attack surfaces to be exploited. Our logging capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. As noted above, some of our information systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents or breaches, including during fiscal 2025, and, although to date they have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results or business, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems used in legacy operations and acquired eCommerce, technology or other businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks. Those attacks involve attempts to impede the operations of
19
our system or gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including personal information and/or payment information, and related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. Such attacks, if successful, may result in potential data and personal information misuse and/or loss and may create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage the information systems that enable or support one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity and our ability to efficiently operate our business. If we are unable to maintain the security of the information systems that enable or support our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could be subject to regulatory fines, suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers, members or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password and identity management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and a compromise or breach of our or their information systems. Moreover, the hardware, software or applications that comprise our information system and networked environment may have vulnerabilities or defects of design, coding, manufacture or operations that could be intentionally exploited or inadvertently used in a manner that could compromise information security. Given the age, size and complexity of these information systems and our networked environment, patches for certain vulnerabilities may not exist and, even where patches or other risk-mitigating activities are available, the deployment of patches or execution of risk-mitigating actions may not occur before an underlying vulnerability is exploited by threat actors or inadvertently results in the compromise of our information systems or data.
Any compromise of our information systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in regulated data or confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions (including, with respect to health information, liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, collectively known as "HIPAA" and with respect to personal information, liability under international and state data breach notification laws), customer attrition, remediation expenses and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation, financial position and results of operations.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems or data change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, or detect the activities of a threat actor. Moreover, the increasing sophistication of AI technologies poses a greater risk of identity fraud, as malicious actors may exploit AI to create convincing false identities or manipulate verification processes. Even if we detect a fraudulent or cybersecurity incident, the nature and extent of that incident may not be immediately clear. Based on the sophistication of the threat actors and the size and complexity of our information systems and networked environment, among other factors, an investigation into a cybersecurity incident could take a significant amount of time to complete. We may not understand or appreciate that what is detected and treated as multiple individual cybersecurity incidents or events may be associated with the coordinated actions of a single threat actor or group. In addition, while our investigation of a cybersecurity incident is ongoing, we may not know the full extent of the harm caused by a threat actor, and such harm may spread both internally and to certain customers, vendors or other third parties. These factors may inhibit our ability to provide rapid, complete and reliable information about the cybersecurity incident to customers, counterparties and regulators, as well as the public. It may also not be clear how best to contain and remediate any harm caused by the cybersecurity incident, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. Any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, members, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance programs, information technology and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk. Disruptions in our systems caused by associate error or malfeasance, security incidents, breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with (such as strategic partners, suppliers, banks or utility companies) – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, members, financial services firms and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
Our reputation with our customers and members is important to the success of our enterprise strategy, which combines traditional retail, membership models, marketplaces, financial services, health and wellness and other customer and business
20
services into a series of interconnected assets to make it seamless for customers to interact with us. Security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores, thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, growth rates, operating income, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity. Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. Moreover, a security compromise or operationally impactful malware event, such as ransomware, could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, electronic benefits transfer (EBT) cards, mobile payments and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. We cannot be certain that the security measures we or our third-party suppliers maintain are able to detect, prevent or contain cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security incidents, breaches or other compromises from malware, ransomware or other threats that are known or may be developed in the future. In certain circumstances, our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
We also have compliance obligations associated with privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include liability for security and privacy breaches. Among other obligations, breaches may trigger obligations under U.S. federal and state laws and laws in certain other countries to notify affected individuals, government agencies and the media. Consequently, cybersecurity incidents that result in a data breach or our failure to comply with such laws could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
Changes in third-party reimbursements and contracts, type or scope of offerings of our health and wellness business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
We have retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. segments across the U.S. and in various of our international markets such as Canada and Mexico.
A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs"). Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements, including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options and/or home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any additional
changes in the state or federal regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of health reform efforts and other changes to or novel interpretations of existing state or federal laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such
21
pharmaceuticals. Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of the factors above may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities. In addition, these and other factors may adversely affect the type, volume and mix of services we provide and the reimbursement we receive for health and wellness services rendered. Any of these developments could, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including our enterprise strategy and management transitions within our senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success. We compete for talent with other retail and non-retail businesses, including, for example, technology, health and wellness and fintech businesses, and invest significant resources in training and motivating our associates. Increased competition among potential employers at all levels, including senior management and executive levels, could result in increased associate costs or make it more difficult to recruit and retain associates. If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new, revised or novel interpretations of existing labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws, including those related to worker classification, are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Illegal or inappropriate activity of our independent contractors or third-party service providers could expose us to liability and adversely affect our business, reputation and financial performance.
We are subject to risks related to our engagement of independent contractors or other third-party service providers. The qualification processes and background checks we utilize when engaging independent contractors may not reveal all potentially relevant information, including accurate worker authorization information and criminal history. If these independent contractors engage in misconduct, consumers may not consider our goods and services safe, and we may receive negative press coverage. Further, we have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, losses from various types of fraud with respect to unauthorized uses of another person's identity and use of fraudulent identification documents. Any physical injury, loss of life, fraud, property and/or financial damage caused by our independent contractors or third-party service providers could adversely affect our business reputation, which could negatively affect demand for our goods and services, lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure and adversely affect our financial performance.
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income, growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, advertising and other higher-margin initiatives (which are expected to help drive our operating income growth at a rate faster than net sales over the long term), capital expenditures, comparable store and club sales growth rates or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our effective tax rates, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of our performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
22
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores, clubs and eCommerce platforms around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate retail and eCommerce businesses in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2025, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales. Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries. Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions; legal and regulatory constraints, such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as in India; restrictive governmental actions, such as trade protection measures or nationalization; antitrust and competition law regulatory matters, such as those underway in Canada, Mexico and India (relating to our Flipkart subsidiary); local product safety and environmental laws; tax regulations; local labor laws; anti-money laundering laws and regulations; trade policies; foreign exchange or currency regulations; laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection; and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
Changing our operations in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade or newly imposed sanctions can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice and we may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. In addition, tensions between nation-state governments and conflicts of laws may lead to challenges for our operations. If disputes and conflicts further escalate in the future, actions by governments in response, or consumer boycotts in certain regions, could be significantly more severe and restrictive and could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have a negative effect on consumer confidence and spending, which could also adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they recur, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, geopolitical tensions or events, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. sanctions laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries. Our global policies designed to regulate such business practices and our global compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations may not be adequate to prevent the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are appropriately regulated by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
23
Changes in tax and trade laws, regulations and interpretations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2025, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. operating segments generated approximately 82% of our consolidated net sales. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs, trade barriers, other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. Any such actions, including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. and international operations as well as our business.
We are subject to income taxes, other taxes and tax collection and reporting obligations in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. Our taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles and the interpretations of those rules. In addition, we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date of those obligations.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, and changes in transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries, any of which can impact our or our subsidiaries' current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law, changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws or changes in transfer pricing arrangements could also have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act and any other new tax rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations, including collecting information not regularly produced by us or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to or seek to enforce novel interpretations of their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect and more permanent changes. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), the European Union and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed. In particular, the OECD's Pillar Two initiative introduces a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis, which became effective in many jurisdictions in which we operate starting January 1, 2024. The impact of these potential new rules as well as any other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations could have a material effect on our effective tax rate.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations, legislation and interpretations. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws, regulations and interpretations of such laws and regulations specific to the businesses and jurisdictions in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate and could be materially adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements, including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. In addition, the degree of regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face increases the likelihood that our efforts to adhere to our practices and procedures to comply with these laws and legal requirements may be subject to frequent or increasing challenges. If we fail to prevent independent contractors or third-party service providers from violating our policies or applicable laws or committing any fraudulent acts against us or our customers, it could harm our business or damage our reputation, and we could face liability for unlawful activities by such third parties.
Our health and wellness operations in the U.S. are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, those related to: licensing; reimbursement arrangements and other requirements and restrictions; registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; governmental (including Medicare and Medicaid) and commercial reimbursement; data privacy and security and the sharing
24
and interoperability of data, including obligations and restrictions related to health information (such as those imposed under HIPAA); protection of consumer health data; billing and coding for healthcare services and properly handling overpayments; debt collection; necessity and adequacy of healthcare services; relationships with referral sources and referral recipients and other fraud and abuse issues, such as those addressed by anti-kickback and false claims laws and patient inducement regulations; qualification of healthcare practitioners; quality and standards of medical services and equipment; and the practice of the professions of pharmacy and optometry.
Health-related legislation at the federal and state level may have an adverse effect on our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. For example, in the U.S., the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various other regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, distribution, maintenance and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state-controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances. The DEA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, there has been recent heightened governmental and public scrutiny of pharmaceutical product pricing, which has resulted in federal and state legislation and regulations, executive orders and other initiatives and proposals designed to increase transparency in pharmaceutical product pricing and reform government program reimbursement methodologies (for example, the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes, among other matters, policies designed to impact drug prices and reduce drug spending by the federal government). Other health reform efforts at the federal and state levels may also impact our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. States may enact conflicting laws, mandating changes in operations that negatively impact our ability to execute uniformly and achieve economies of scale across states. We may not be able to predict the nature or success of reform initiatives, and the resulting uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business.
Additionally, through various financial service partners and our ONE fintech venture, we offer various services such as money transfers, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders, check cashing, prepaid access, co-branded credits cards, installment lending and earned wage access. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent fraud and other illicit activity, privacy, information security, anti-money laundering and sanctions regimes and consumer protection under U.S. state and federal laws and regulations, as well as those of certain other countries. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation. Increased U.S. regulation of non-bank financial institutions may also result in additional requirements and scrutiny of certain financial services we offer.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters; protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; food and drug safety, including drug supply chain security requirements; consumer protection, and safety, including the availability, sale, price label accuracy, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs, as well as our ONE fintech venture); anti-money laundering prohibitions; consumer financial protection laws; economic, trade and other sanctions matters; licensure, including supply chain logistics licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; cross border data transfer; data privacy, cybersecurity and the sharing and interoperability of data; working conditions, workplace health and safety, equal employment opportunity, worker classification, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters; and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy and optometry operations. Failure to meet these requirements could affect the profitability of our business activities; limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or conduct business in certain jurisdictions; require changes to business practices or governance or alter our relationships with our customers, partners and other third parties, including our ability to continue certain relationships in Mexico, India or other international jurisdictions; result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight and compliance, litigation-related settlements, judgments or expenses, restitution to customers or the imposition of fines or monetary penalties.
Governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting diligence, and disclosure topics such as climate change, sustainability (including with respect to our supply chain), natural resources, waste reduction, energy, human capital and risk oversight could change the nature, scope and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess and report.
Data privacy and protection laws or customer expectations relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information continue to undergo a rapid transformation in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. Recently enacted state laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), in a number of states that have become effective, or will soon be effective, have created a substantially more complex regulatory regime associated with data-handling practices. Moreover, other laws and regulations related to data-handling and privacy that apply to our business, such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the United Kingdom's General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law), China's Personal Information Protection Act ("PIPL"), and similar legislation in Quebec, Canada further increase the compliance obligations of our business. Certain of these laws have required us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and
25
expenses to comply, which we anticipate will continue in the future. These and other privacy and cybersecurity laws may carry significant potential damages and civil penalties for noncompliance. For example, in the case of noncompliance with a material provision of the GDPR (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover (i.e., revenue) in the prior year. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach. Further, PIPL took effect in China in November 2021. PIPL raises the requirements for processing personal information and requires our China business to undergo a cybersecurity assessment and obtain approval from the Cyberspace Administration of China ("CAC") as well as consent from the personal information owner before personal information collected in China may be transferred to, or accessed from, outside of China. Walmart obtained CAC approval in September 2023. Fines for PIPL violations range from approximately RMB 50 million to up to 5% of the infringing company's previous year's revenues generated from within China. We have made changes, and we may in the future make additional adjustments to our business practices, to comply with the personal information protection laws and regulations in China as they evolve. Residents in jurisdictions with comprehensive privacy laws generally have rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and selling, receive detailed information about how their personal information is used and may have a private right of action for data breaches. Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We may be subject to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including being required to change some portions of our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, impact our reputation and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny as to existing laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, in the U.S., shifting enforcement priorities for existing antitrust, competition and pricing laws, use and disposal of plastics, recycled plastics or other packaging materials, ESG, consumer protection and AI technology, as well as proposed new rules and regulations) generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices of existing laws and regulations may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. If we fail to predict or respond adequately to changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our business, operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
We acquired VIZIO Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries (collectively "VIZIO") in December 2024. As part of its business, VIZIO collects certain consumer data, including viewing data from its opted-in internet-connected televisions. In 2017, VIZIO stipulated to the entry of a judgment in federal district court with the Federal Trade Commission and the New Jersey Attorney General to settle alleged violations related to certain of its business practices (the "VIZIO Order"). The VIZIO Order remains in effect until 2037 and requires VIZIO to comply with specified obligations related to its collection and use of certain information collected from a VIZIO internet-connected device. These requirements apply to certain VIZIO entities and all other persons in active concert or participation with them. Our ownership of VIZIO and these compliance obligations are new, and if we fail to adequately design or implement controls for these matters, we may face additional regulatory action, penalties or monetary fines, any of which could have a substantial negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance.
In addition, we may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The regulatory, political and media scrutiny we face, which may continue, amplifies these risks. To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required licenses and certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages. Failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are subject to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. We are or may be involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, consumer protection, employment, environmental and other governmental authorities as well as private individuals. We may also be involved in legal proceedings brought by regulatory authorities, organizations and individuals relating to product packaging, including that such packaging is made of plastic, is not appropriately disposed, contains PFAS, or contains misrepresentations about its recyclability, compostability, biodegradability or reusability. We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain business customers we contract with and businesses we have
26
divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative actions, class and representative actions and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class, representative or collective action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal, state and local wage and hour and employment laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state competition and consumer protection laws.
We have been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids. We are a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids, including the multidistrict litigation entitled In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804) currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, cases pending in various state and federal courts, and a lawsuit filed against us by the U.S. Department of Justice in the District of Delaware in 2020. We cannot predict the ultimate number of opioids-related claims that may be filed or their outcomes and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from opioids-related matters.
In addition, we have been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities regarding the independent contractor classification of drivers and payment and operational practices with respect to our driver platform, as well as defending putative class and representative action civil litigation relating to driver classification and defending other civil litigation and arbitration claims in connection with the driver platform. On December 23, 2024, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") filed a lawsuit against the Company and Branch Messenger, Inc. in the District of Minnesota alleging the Company violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act by allegedly requiring independent contractor drivers on the Spark platform to receive payments through a financial product offered by Branch. The CFPB seeks an injunction and unspecified restitution, damages and civil penalties. On February 20, 2025, the Court entered an order that indefinitely stays the case and vacates all deadlines. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigations by the governmental entities or the civil litigation and arbitration matters. We cannot provide any assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and no assurance that our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
In July 2021, the Directorate of Enforcement in India issued a show cause notice to Flipkart Private Limited and one of its subsidiaries ("Flipkart"), and to unrelated companies and individuals, including certain current and former shareholders and directors of Flipkart. The notice requests the recipients to show cause as to why further proceedings under India's Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations (the "Rules") should not be initiated against them based on alleged violations during the period from 2009 to 2015, prior to our acquisition of a majority stake in Flipkart in 2018 (the "Notice"), in addition to more recent requests for information from the Directorate of Enforcement to Flipkart for periods prior and subsequent to April 2016 regarding the Rules, including the most recent request in February 2025 (the "Requests"). The Notice is an initial stage of proceedings under the Rules which could, depending upon the conclusions at the end of the initial stage, lead to a hearing to consider the merits of the allegations described in the Notice. If a hearing is initiated, whether with respect to the Notice or from further proceedings related to the Requests, and if it is determined that violations of the Rules occurred, then the regulatory authority has the authority to impose monetary and/or non-monetary relief, such as share ownership restrictions. We are unable to predict whether the Notice will lead to a hearing on the merits or, if it does, the final outcome of the resulting proceedings, as well as whether any further proceedings will arise with respect to the Requests. We cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters and can provide no assurance as to the scope or outcome of any proceeding that might result from the Notice or the Requests and further can provide no assurance that its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
On January 13, 2020, the Competition Commission of India ("CCI") ordered its Director General (the "DG") to investigate certain matters alleging competition law violations by certain subsidiaries of Flipkart in India and other parties. On September 13, 2024, those subsidiaries received a non-confidential version of the DG's Investigation Report (the "Report"), alleging certain competition law violations. CCI is not bound by the Report, and will conduct its independent analysis of the allegations, including hearing objections from the subsidiaries and other parties before issuing its final order in the matter, which could include monetary and non-monetary relief. CCI's final order would also be subject to appropriate appellate proceedings. We can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of this matter, cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise, and can provide no assurance that its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
Also, in October 2023, the main Mexican operating subsidiary of Wal-Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Walmex") was notified of the initiation of a quasi-judicial administrative process against it for alleged relative monopolistic practices in connection with the supply and wholesale distribution of certain consumer goods and retail marketing practices of such consumer goods and related services. On December 12, 2024, the Comisión Federal de Competencia Económica of México ("COFECE") issued a split decision that Walmex's subsidiary had engaged in a single relative monopolistic practice in relation to the negotiation of two types of contributions with its suppliers. The resolution imposed a monetary penalty on Walmex's subsidiary and certain non-structural conduct measures. Walmex and its business operations may continue to be closely
27
monitored and subject to heightened scrutiny from regulatory authorities on these matters leading to possible negative publicity, additional litigation proceedings and reputational harm, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
We are also a defendant in litigation with the Federal Trade Commission regarding our money transfer agent services and are also cooperating with and responding to subpoenas issued by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on behalf of the U.S. Department of Justice regarding our consumer fraud prevention program and anti-money laundering compliance related to our money transfer services, where we are an agent. We are unable to predict the outcome of the litigation or investigations or any other related actions by governmental entities regarding these matters and can provide no assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and whether our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
We discuss in more detail these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
Note 10
in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Delaware Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for certain shareholder claims, including derivative claims alleging a violation of duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder, unless we agree otherwise in writing. This exclusive forum provision may increase the cost for shareholders to bring claims or limit their ability to choose a favorable forum, potentially discouraging lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court finds this provision unenforceable, we may face higher costs resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. However, this provision does not affect the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction of federal courts over actions brought under the federal securities laws, including the Exchange Act, as amended, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Not satisfying stakeholder expectations with respect to our ESG efforts could adversely affect our reputation or subject us to regulatory or litigation risk.
We strive to deliver shared value through our business, although stakeholder expectations continue to evolve and are not uniform, and our diverse stakeholders expect us to make significant progress in certain areas. We have established, and may continue to establish, various goals and initiatives on certain matters, including with respect to climate change, waste, packaging, plastic usage and other topics. We periodically publish information about our shared value priorities, strategies, progress and challenges through our online ESG reporting, which is not incorporated by reference into and does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Achievement of these aspirations and goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve our goals or that our initiatives will achieve their desired results. Consequently, it is possible that we may fail, or be perceived to have failed, in the achievement of our ESG goals and certain customers, associates, shareholders, investors, suppliers, business partners, government agencies and non-governmental organizations might not be satisfied with our progress. Furthermore, federal, state and local regulatory authorities, private organizations and individuals may challenge our approach to ESG issues, including allegations that we failed in our efforts, should not have undertaken such efforts or that we improperly engaged with other entities in our approach to ESG issues. These challenges could involve administrative proceedings or litigation, including as class or mass actions. A failure or perceived failure to meet our goals or to otherwise meet evolving and diverse stakeholder expectations could adversely affect public perception of our business, associate morale or customer or shareholder support.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 1C.
CYBERSECURITY
Walmart seeks to build and maintain the trust of customers, associates, shareholders and other stakeholders with respect to our use of technology and data. Our digital trust commitments, in line with our Company's values of service, excellence, integrity and respect for the individual, provide a foundation for our approach to cybersecurity.
The Board of Directors, committees of the Board of Directors and management coordinate risk oversight and management responsibilities, and cybersecurity represents an important component of our overall approach to enterprise risk management.
In general, we seek to address cybersecurity risks through a cross-functional approach
focused on protecting business operations and preserving the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information by identifying, preventing and mitigating cybersecurity threats and effectively responding to cybersecurity incidents when they occur.
28
Board of Directors' oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats
Our Board of Directors, which has primary responsibility for overseeing risk management,
has delegated risk management oversight responsibility for information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity to the Audit Committee.
Several of our Board members, including certain members of our Audit Committee, have backgrounds or professional experience in risk management, digital platforms, information technology or cybersecurity.
The Audit Committee receives periodic updates from our Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO"), Chief Technology Officer ("CTO") and other members of management on risks related to information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity. Specific topics may include updates to our company's approach to cybersecurity risk management; recent developments; key initiatives; the threat landscape; trends; and the results of certain assessments and testing. The
Board
of Directors receives regular reports from the Audit Committee chair on these and other risk-related matters as deemed necessary. Our CISO or other members of management provide information to the Audit Committee pursuant to risk-based escalation protocols for cybersecurity incidents that exceed established reporting thresholds.
Management's role in assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats
Our
CISO
leads Walmart's Information Security organization and has responsibility for overseeing our Company's cybersecurity program.
To operationalize our program, we deploy multidisciplinary teams, including cybersecurity personnel and professionals, to address cybersecurity threats and respond to cybersecurity incidents, including for those recently acquired and non-wholly owned subsidiaries whose systems have not been fully integrated into Walmart's networks.
Through ongoing engagement with these teams and certain third-party service providers, our CISO monitors the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents and reports cybersecurity incidents that reach established thresholds to senior management and the Audit Committee, which are also analyzed for external reporting requirements.
Our CISO has been a Walmart associate for over 30 years, has served in various roles in information technology and information security at Walmart for more than 20 years, and has received industry-recognized information security certifications. Our CTO, to whom the CISO reports, has served as Walmart's CTO since 2019 and prior to that had experience managing technology and other risks at several other large public companies.
Risk Management and Strategy
Our cybersecurity program is informed by various industry frameworks including the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST-CSF), which are reflected in our related policies, standards, processes and practices. We may implement changes to our cybersecurity program when deemed appropriate based on updates to laws or industry standards among other things. We have multiple layers of security designed to detect and prevent cybersecurity events, as well as dedicated teams of cybersecurity personnel and professionals, which assist our CISO in helping to assess, identify, monitor, detect and manage cybersecurity risks, threats, vulnerabilities and incidents. We collaborate with public and private entities and industry groups and engage third-party service providers to expand the capabilities and capacity of our cybersecurity program when deemed appropriate. Certain key components of our cybersecurity program include the following:
Protecting our technology and information systems:
When we implement significant changes to our technologies or information systems, we conduct risk-based security and privacy impact assessments and deploy technical safeguards that are designed to reasonably protect our technology and information systems from cybersecurity threats. We actively monitor and proactively research potential cybersecurity threats to our technologies and information systems. We use what we learn to evolve our security controls over time to mitigate risks posed by such threats.
Incident response and recovery planning:
We maintain incident response and recovery plans that address our response to cybersecurity incidents, including incidents that we become aware of at third parties that support our operations. These plans guide how we evaluate and assign incident severity levels and reporting thresholds; escalate and engage incident response teams; and manage and mitigate the related risks.
Third-party risk management:
We maintain a risk-based approach to identifying and managing cybersecurity threats presented to Walmart by third-party systems that support our operations, as well as third-party users of our data and systems, including vendors, service providers and subcontractors.
Training and awareness:
We provide recurring information security training (which includes cybersecurity training) to our associates and certain third parties based on access, risk, roles, policies, standards and behaviors.
Assessments and testing:
We engage in periodic assessment and testing of our policies, standards, processes and practices that are designed to address cybersecurity threats. These efforts include tabletop exercises, threat modeling, vulnerability testing and other exercises focused on evaluating the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures and planning.
We regularly engage assessors, consultants, auditors or other third parties to assist with our assessments and testing.
Where appropriate we adjust our cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices accordingly based on internal and external assessment and testing results.
29
Certain of Walmart's systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents and threats.
Based on the information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any cybersecurity incidents, which have materially affected us or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition.
Despite our security measures, however, there can be no assurance that we, or the third parties with which we interact, will not experience a cybersecurity incident in the future that will materially affect us. Additional information about cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
," which should be read in conjunction with the information above.
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
As of January 31, 2025
(1)
, retail unit counts for Walmart U.S., Sam's Club U.S. and Walmart International are summarized as follows:
Total
Square feet
(2)
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
3,559
632,577
...
Neighborhood Markets and other small formats
691
28,245
Walmart U.S. Total
4,605
697,949
Sam's Club U.S.
600
80,351
U.S. Total
5,205
778,300
Walmart International
Retail
5,230
235,279
Wholesale
336
39,141
Walmart International Total
5,566
274,420
Total Company
10,771
1,052,720
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2024, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2025.
(2)
Square feet reported in thousands.
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as of January 31, 2025
(1)
:
Owned
Leased
(2)
Total
Retail Units
Walmart U.S. retail units
4,039
566
4,605
Sam's Club U.S. retail units
513
87
600
Walmart International retail units
1,487
4,079
5,566
Total retail units
6,039
4,732
10,771
Distribution Facilities
Walmart U.S. distribution facilities
115
49
164
Sam's Club U.S. distribution facilities
10
21
31
Walmart International distribution facilities
23
161
184
Total distribution facilities
148
231
379
(1)
Walmart International properties, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2024, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2025.
(2)
Includes distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management. The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company. We use independent contractors to construct our buildings. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses. For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption "Distribution" provided for each of our segments under "
Item 1. Business
."
30
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
The Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of its business, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, subpoenas, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities.
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," which is captioned "Contingencies," under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings." We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit or appeal was filed, in addition to disclosure of certain other legal matters.
Opioid-Related Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804)
(the "MDL") is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes approximately 250 cases with claims against the Company as of March 10, 2025. In addition, there are more than 25 other opioid-related cases against the Company and its subsidiaries pending in U.S. state and federal courts and Canadian courts as of March 10, 2025. The non-MDL case citations are listed on Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation:
United States of America v. Walmart Inc., et al.,
USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20.
Settlement of Certain Opioid-Related Matters:
As described in more detail in
Note
10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company accrued a liability of approximately $3.3 billion in fiscal year 2023 for certain opioid-related settlements. As of January 31, 2025, all of the accrued liability has been paid. Certain eligible political subdivisions and federally recognized Native American tribes have until July 15, 2025 and February 24, 2026, respectively, to join the settlement.
Opioid-Related Derivative Lawsuits:
Abt v. Alvarez et al.
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 2/9/21;
...
, USDC, Dist. of DE, 5/11/21;
In re Walmart Inc. Securities Litigation,
USCCA, 3d Cir., 4/29/24.
False Claims Act Litigation:
United States of America
ex rel.
James Marcilla and Isela Chavez
, USDC, Dist. of N.M., 8/23/19, transferred to USDC Dist. of DE 7/25/24.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v. ASDA Stores Ltd
(2406372/2008 &
Others
...
Driver Platform Matter:
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau v. Walmart Inc., et al.
, USDC D. of Minn., 12/23/24.
Mexico Antitrust Matter:
Comisión Federal de Competencia Económica of México, Investigative Authority v. Nueva Wal-Mart de México, S.de R.L. de C.V. (Docket IO-002-2020, consolidated with Docket DE-026-2020), Mexico, 10/6/23.
India Antitrust Matter:
Competition Commission of India, Case No. 40 of 2019, order initiating investigation 1/13/20.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed an applied threshold not to exceed $1 million.
In October 2023, the Company received a Finding of Violation from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") alleging violations of the Clean Air Act in connection with the Company's refrigeration leak detection and repair program at certain of its facilities. The Company is evaluating the findings and cooperating with the EPA in its investigation. The EPA may seek to impose monetary and non-monetary penalties for the alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. Due to the fact that this process is in an early stage, the Company is unable to predict the final outcome of this matter. Although the Company does not believe this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance that its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 12, 2025, there were 194,162 holders of record of Walmart's common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2025 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index (formerly named the S&P 500 Retailing Index) and the S&P 500 Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2020 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.
*Assumes $100 Invested on February 1, 2020
Assumes Dividends Reinvested
Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2025
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2020
...
132.68
160.30
202.59
S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index
100.00
141.39
153.61
...
162.21
227.91
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. All repurchases made during fiscal 2025 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases. As of January 31, 2025, authorization for $12.0 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
32
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2025, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025"), January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024") and January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes. We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments of our business to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures.  Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
Management also measures the results of comparable store and club sales, or comparable sales, a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, for a particular period from the corresponding prior year period. Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales. We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omni-channel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our ecosystem, such as our advertising net sales. Sales at a store that has changed in format are excluded from comparable sales when the conversion of that store is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in the store's retail square feet of more than 5%. Sales related to divested businesses are excluded from comparable sales, and sales related to acquisitions are excluded until such acquisitions have been owned for 12 months. Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months. Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Volatility in currency exchange rates have impacted and may continue to impact the results, including net sales and operating income, of the Company and the Walmart International segment.
We have taken certain strategic actions across our segments, including an increased emphasis on investments in automation and supply chain as well as diversifying our earnings streams through category and business mix. In December 2024, the Walmart U.S. segment completed the acquisition of VIZIO Holding Corp. for net cash consideration of $1.9 billion. Additionally, we have taken actions in the Walmart International segment to reshape our portfolio including the following highlights over the last three years:
•
In November 2022, we completed the buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary (Refer to
Note 3
) and in December 2022, we exited operations in certain countries in Africa.
•
In December 2022, we increased our ownership in PhonePe as part of the separation from our majority-owned Flipkart subsidiary. Refer to
Note 3
.
•
In August 2024, we sold our equity investment in JD.com for net proceeds of $3.6 billion. Refer to
Note 8
.
We operate in a highly competitive omni-channel retail industry in all of the markets we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs and supermarkets, as well as eCommerce, health and wellness, financial services, advertising and data service businesses. Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains or have a national or international omni-channel or eCommerce presence. We compete with a number of companies for attracting and retaining quality associates. We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, weather and other risks related to climate change, global health epidemics and pandemics, competitive pressures, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, disruptions in supply chain, inventory management, cost and availability of goods, currency exchange rate fluctuations, customer preferences, inflation, deflation, fuel and energy prices, general economic
34
conditions, insurance costs, interest rates, labor availability and costs, tax rates, the imposition of tariffs, cybersecurity attacks and unemployment. Further information on the factors that can affect our operating results and on certain risks to our Company and an investment in its securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low
costs. Our net sales and gross profit margin are influenced in part by our pricing and merchandising strategies in response to cost increases. Those pricing strategies include but are not limited to: absorbing cost increases instead of passing those cost increases on to our customers and members; reducing prices in certain merchandise categories; focusing on opening price points for certain food categories; and when necessary, passing cost increases on to our customers and members. Merchandising strategies include, but are not limited to: working with our suppliers to reduce product costs and share in absorbing cost increases; focusing on private label brands and smaller pack sizes; earlier-than-usual purchasing and in greater volumes or moderating purchasing in certain categories; and securing ocean carrier and container capacity. These strategies have and may continue to impact gross profit as a percentage of net sales.
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to inflationary trends; tariffs and trade restrictions; fluctuations in global currencies; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; volatility in employment trends; and supply chain pressures, any of which may impact our results. For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Operations
" below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs. At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate. We define our financial priorities as follows:
•
Growth - serve customers through a seamless omni-channel experience;
•
Margin - improve our operating income margin through productivity initiatives as well as category and business mix; and
•
Returns - improve our Return on Investment through margin improvement and disciplined capital spend.
Growth
Our objective of prioritizing growth means we will focus on serving customers and members however they want to shop through our omni-channel business model. This includes increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership at Sam's Club U.S. and through Walmart+, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expansion of omni-channel initiatives that complement our strategy.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year. The retail industry generally reports comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar). To be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases. However, when we discuss our comparable sales below, we are referring to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar. We report on comparable sales in the U.S. as we believe it is a meaningful metric within the context of the U.S. retail market where there is a single currency, one inflationary market and generally consistent store and club formats from year to year.
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2025 and 2024, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2025
2024
2025
2024
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
4.8%
5.5%
(0.1)%
(0.1)%
Sam's Club U.S.
4.7%
2.3%
(1.5)%
...
4.9%
(0.3)%
(0.6)%
Comparable sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 4.8% and 4.9% in fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 4.8% and 5.5% in fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. For fiscal 2025, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. For fiscal 2024, comparable sales growth was driven by growth in transactions combined with growth in average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness.Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.9% and 2.6% to comparable sales for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which was primarily driven by store-fulfilled pickup and delivery.
Comparable sales at Sam's Club U.S. increased 4.7% and 2.3% in fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. For fiscal 2025, Sam's Club U.S. comparable sales increased due to growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Sam's Club U.S. comparable sales for fiscal 2024 increased due to growth in transactions and average ticket,
35
including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Additionally, fiscal 2025 and 2024 growth was partially offset by lower fuel sales primarily due to lower market prices. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce sales
positively
contributed approximately 2.3% and 1.7% to comparable sales for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which was primarily driven by club-fulfilled curbside pickup and delivery.
Margin
Our objective of prioritizing margin focuses on growth with a focus on incremental margin accretion through a combination of productivity improvements as well as category and business mix. We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs and we operate with discipline by managing expenses and optimizing the efficiency of how we work. We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses. Additionally, we focus on our mix of businesses, including expanding our ecosystem in higher margin areas, such as digital advertising and marketplace. Our objective is to achieve operating income leverage, which we define as growing operating income at a faster rate than net sales.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2025
2024
Net sales
$
674,538
$
...
%
6.1
%
Gross profit
(1)
as a percentage of net sales
24.1
%
23.7
%
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.7
%
20.4
%
Operating income
$
29,348
$
27,012
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.4
%
4.2
%
(1)
Gross profit defined as net sales less cost of sales.
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate") increased 40 and 27 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases were primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally, partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories. Additionally, the increase in fiscal 2024 benefited from lapping higher markdowns incurred in the prior year.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 36 and decreased 60 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance, increased marketing and higher depreciation expenses. The decrease for fiscal 2024 was primarily due to lapping charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment in the prior year.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased 15 and 83 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, due to the factors described above, as well as from strong growth in membership income globally.
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time. We measure return on capital with our return on investment and free cash flow metrics. In addition, we provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA") and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess our return on capital. ROA is the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP") while ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because we calculate ROI using financial measures that exclude and include amounts that are included and excluded in ROA, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. ROA is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period. We define ROI as operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during the period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period. Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
36
ROA was 7.9% and 6.6% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in ROA was primarily due to an increase in consolidated net income during the trailing 12 month period, as a result of higher operating income and changes in the fair value of our equity and other investments.
ROI was 15.5% and 15.0% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in ROI was the result of an increase in operating income, primarily due to improvements in business performance, partially offset by an increase in average invested capital primarily due to higher purchases of property and equipment.
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
2024
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
20,157
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
29,348
$
...
+ Rent
2,347
2,277
= ROI operating income
$
45,151
$
...
2025
2024
2023
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
260,823
...
28,759
31,126
Strategic Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes allocating the majority of our capital to higher-return areas focused on automation such as eCommerce, supply chain and store and club investments. The following table provides additional detail regarding our capital expenditures:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2025
2024
Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives, technology and other
$
14,603
$
...
20,605
$
17,695
Walmart International
3,178
2,911
Total Capital Expenditures
$
23,783
$
20,606
37
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. See
Liquidity and Capital Resources
for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. We had net cash provided by operating activities of $36.4 billion, $35.7 billion and $28.8 billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We generated free cash flow of $12.7 billion, $15.1 billion and $12.0 billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2025 is primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income and lapping the payment of accrued opioid legal charges in the prior year, partially offset by increased inventory purchases. Free cash flow for fiscal 2025 decreased when compared to fiscal 2024 due to an increase of $3.2 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy, partially offset by the increase in net cash provided by operating activities described above. Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2024 increased when compared to fiscal 2023 primarily due to higher cash provided by operating income, as well as timing of certain payments and strategic inventory management as part of working capital initiatives, partially offset by payment of the remaining accrued opioid legal charges. Free cash flow for fiscal 2024 increased when compared to fiscal 2023 due to the increase in net cash provided by operating activities described above, partially offset by an increase of $3.7 billion in capital expenditures to support our investment strategy.
Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2025
...
35,726
$
28,841
Payments for property and equipment
(23,783)
(20,606)
(16,857)
Free cash flow
$
12,660
$
...
(13,414)
(17,039)
(1)
"Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
38
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2025
2024
2023
Net sales
$
674,538
$
...
%
6.7
%
Membership and other income
(1)
$
6,447
...
5,488
$
5,408
Total revenues
680,985
648,125
611,289
...
%
6.7
%
Gross profit
(2)
162,785
152,495
142,160
Operating expenses
(2)
139,884
130,971
127,140
Operating income
29,348
27,012
20,428
Other (gains) and losses
794
3,027
1,538
Consolidated net income
20,157
16,270
11,292
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
24.1
%
23.7
%
23.5
%
Operating expenses
20.7
%
20.4
%
21.0
%
Operating income
4.4
%
4.2
%
3.4
%
Unit counts at period end
10,771
10,616
10,623
Retail square feet at period end
1,053
1,053
1,056
(1)
Membership and other income includes membership fees and other items such as rental and tenant income, recycling income, gift card breakage income, as well as other income from corporate campus facilities.
(2)
Gross profit is defined as net sales less cost of sales. Operating expenses refers to operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Our total revenues increased $32.9 billion or 5.1% and $36.8 billion or 6.0% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $31.9 billion or 5.0% and $36.8 billion or 6.1% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases were primarily due to strong positive comparable sales across our U.S. segments and international markets, driven primarily by growth in transactions and unit volumes, which included strength in eCommerce as well as strong sales in grocery, and health and wellness. Net sales were negatively impacted by $3.2 billion and positively impacted by $3.0 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. Membership and other income increased $1.0 billion and $0.1 billion for fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, primarily driven by growth in membership fee income globally.
Our gross profit rate increased 40 and 27 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases were primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally, partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories. Additionally, the increase in fiscal 2024 benefited from lapping higher markdowns incurred in the prior year.
Our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 36 and decreased 60 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance, increased marketing and higher depreciation expenses. The decrease for fiscal 2024 was primarily due to lapping charges of $3.3 billion related to opioid-related legal settlements and $0.8 billion related to the reorganization and restructuring of certain businesses in the Walmart International segment in the prior year.
Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as the change in the fair value of our investments and gains or losses on business dispositions, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses consisted of net losses of $0.8 billion and $3.0 billion in fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which primarily consisted of changes in fair value of our equity and other investments driven by changes in their underlying stock prices.
Our effective income tax rate was 23.4%, 25.5%, and 33.6% for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decrease in effective tax rate in fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024 is primarily due to the tax impact on changes in fair value of our investments. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024 is primarily related to the tax impacts of the separation of Flipkart and PhonePe. Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, changes in tax law, changes in the administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023 is provided in
Note 9
.
39
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $20.2 billion and $16.3 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which represents an increase of $3.9 billion and $5.0 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $2.41, $1.91 and $1.42 for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2025
2024
2023
Net sales
$
462,415
$
441,817
$
420,553
Net sales percentage change from comparable period
4.7
%
5.1
%
6.9
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
4.8
%
5.5
%
7.0
%
Membership and other income
$
2,594
$
1,985
$
1,845
Gross profit
125,964
118,254
111,748
Operating expenses
104,676
98,085
92,973
Operating income
23,882
22,154
20,620
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
27.2
%
26.8
%
26.6
%
Operating expenses
22.6
%
22.2
%
22.1
%
Operating income
5.2
%
5.0
%
4.9
%
Unit counts at period end
4,605
4,615
4,717
Retail square feet at period end
698
699
702
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $20.6 billion or 4.7% and $21.3 billion or 5.1% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 4.8% and 5.5% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2025 were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Comparable sales in fiscal 2024 were driven by growth in transactions combined with growth in average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 2.9% and 2.6% to comparable sales for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which was primarily driven by store-fulfilled pickup and delivery.
Membership and other income increased $0.6 billion and $0.1 billion for fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, primarily driven by growth in membership fee income from Walmart+ and recycling income.
Gross profit rate increased 47 and 20 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase in fiscal 2025 gross profit rate was primarily driven by managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and growth in higher margin businesses, partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories. The increase in fiscal 2024 gross profit rate was primarily due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and lapping higher net markdowns incurred in the prior year, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 44 and 9 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to increased marketing expenses, higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance and increased depreciation expenses. For fiscal 2024, the increase was driven by higher variable pay relative to the prior year as a result of exceeding our planned performance.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
40
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2025
2024
2023
Net sales
$
121,885
$
...
%
—
%
Membership and other income
$
1,478
$
1,408
$
1,621
Gross profit
26,618
24,810
21,651
Operating expenses
22,595
21,309
20,307
Operating income
5,501
4,909
2,965
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
21.8
%
21.6
%
21.4
%
Operating expenses
18.5
%
18.6
%
20.1
%
Operating income
4.5
%
4.3
%
2.9
%
Unit counts at period end
5,566
5,402
5,306
Retail square feet at period end
274
274
273
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased $7.2 billion or 6.3% and $13.7 billion or 13.5% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2025, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales in all of our international markets, which included strength in eCommerce, partially offset by negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $3.2 billion. For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily due to positive comparable sales across our international markets and positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $3.0 billion.
Gross profit rate increased 20 basis points for both fiscal 2025 and 2024 when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2025, the increase was primarily due to improved eCommerce margin and business mix changes, partially offset by ongoing channel and format mix changes. For fiscal 2024, the increase was primarily driven by supply chain efficiencies partially offset by ongoing channel and format mix shifts.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales decreased 5 and 152 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to increased sales driving expense leverage, partially offset by planned investments in associate wages and strategic priorities in Mexico and Central America. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for fiscal 2024, was primarily due to the lapping of business reorganization and restructuring charges incurred related to Flipkart and Massmart in fiscal 2023 and an increase in sales in fiscal 2024.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
41
Sam's Club U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2025
2024
2023
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
90,238
$
...
%
14.7
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
4.7
%
2.3
%
14.6
%
Membership and other income
$
2,323
$
2,051
$
1,908
Gross profit
10,203
9,431
8,761
Operating expenses
10,122
9,290
8,705
Operating income
2,404
2,192
1,964
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
11.3
%
10.9
%
10.4
%
Operating expenses
11.2
%
10.8
%
10.3
%
Operating income
2.7
%
2.5
%
2.3
%
Unit counts at period end
600
599
600
Retail square feet at period end
80
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
79,777
$
...
%
10.5
%
Operating income
$
1,785
$
1,659
$
1,352
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.2
%
2.2
...
1.9
%
(1)
We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club U.S. segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices. Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club U.S. segment in the future.
Net sales for the Sam's Club U.S. segment increased $4.1 billion or 4.7% and $1.8 billion or 2.2% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales, including fuel, of 4.7% and 2.3% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2025 were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Comparable sales in fiscal 2024 were driven by growth in transactions and average ticket, including strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Additionally, fiscal 2025 and 2024 growth was partially offset by lower fuel sales primarily due to lower market prices. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
2.3%
and
1.7% to comparable sales for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, which was primarily driven by club-fulfilled curbside pickup and delivery.
Membership and other income increased 13.3% and 7.5% for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2025 and 2024, the increases were primarily due to growth in membership base and Plus penetration. Fiscal 2025 and 2024 were also positively impacted by the expiration of a promotional offering offsetting membership fee increases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.
Gross profit rate increased 37 and 55 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2025, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to improved operational efficiencies related to merchandise flow and increased margins in fuel, partially offset by higher eCommerce fulfillment costs. For fiscal
2024
, the increase in gross profit rate was primarily due to the lapping of elevated markdowns in the prior year. Additionally, fiscal 2025 and 2024 gross profit rates were partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 44 and 46 basis points for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Fiscal 2025 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to increased compensation related expenses, including associate wage investments and higher variable pay as a result of exceeding our planned performance, as well as elevated technology spend. Fiscal 2024 operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to lower fuel sales and elevated technology spend.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $0.2 billion for both fiscal
2025 and
2024, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
42
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations. Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
35,726
$
28,841
Net cash provided by operating activities was $36.4 billion, $35.7 billion and $28.8 billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year, is primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income and lapping the payment of accrued opioid legal charges in the prior year, partially offset by increased inventory purchases. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2024, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to higher cash provided by operating income, as well as timing of certain payments and strategic inventory management as part of working capital initiatives, partially offset by payment of the remaining accrued opioid legal charges.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $9.0 billion and $9.9 billion as of January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $17.1 billion and $15.5 billion as of January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in our working capital deficit is primarily driven by an increase in short-term borrowings for general corporate purposes and accounts payable due to timing of payments, partially offset by increased inventories and receivables related to higher sales growth. We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Under current law, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. We do not expect current local laws, or other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2025 and 2024, cash and cash equivalents of $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(21,287)
$
(17,722)
Net cash used in investing activities was $21.4 billion, $21.3 billion and $17.7 billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and generally consisted of capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities increased $0.1 billion for fiscal 2025 when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to increased purchases of property and equipment as well as the acquisition of VIZIO for net consideration of $1.9 billion, partially offset by net proceeds received from sales of certain strategic investments, including $3.6 billion related to the sale of our JD.com investment. Net cash used in investing activities increased $3.6 billion for fiscal 2024 when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to increased payments for property and equipment.
Capital expenditures
Refer to the "
Strategic Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2025 and 2024. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026 ("fiscal 2026"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $21 billion to $25 billion, with a focus on technology, supply chain and customer-facing initiatives.
43
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
(13,414)
$
(17,039)
Net cash used in financing activities generally consisted of debt transactions, dividends paid, repurchases of Company stock and transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders. Fiscal 2025 net cash used in financing activities increased $1.4 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to lapping debt issuances in the prior fiscal year and increased share repurchases, partially offset by the purchase of certain noncontrolling interests in the prior fiscal year and higher short-term borrowings. Fiscal 2024 net cash used in financing activities decreased $3.6 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to fewer share repurchases, partially offset by the purchase of certain noncontrolling interests.
Purchase and Sale of Subsidiary Stoc
k
During fiscal 2024, we paid $3.5 billion to acquire shares from certain Flipkart noncontrolling interest holders and settle the liability to former noncontrolling interest holders of PhonePe. Additionally, we received $0.7 billion related to new rounds of equity funding for the Company's majority owned PhonePe subsidiary.
During fiscal 2023, we completed a $0.4 billion buyout of the noncontrolling interest shareholders of our Massmart subsidiary and completed a $0.4 billion acquisition of Alert Innovation, bringing our ownership to approximately 100% of both Massmart and Alert Innovation. The Alert Innovation entity was subsequently sold and deconsolidated in fiscal 2025.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to our short-term borrowings for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2025
...
9,942
$
11,432
Average daily short-term borrowings
4,157
4,295
7,250
...
%
2.4
%
Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2025 and 2024 were $3.1 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively, with weighted-average interest rates of 5.3% and 7.7%, respectively. We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2025 that provide additional liquidity, if needed. Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
As of January 31, 2025, we have $2.1 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.5 billion was drawn and represents an unrecorded current obligation.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2025:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2024
$
...
36,132
$
39,579
Repayments of long-term debt
(3,468)
—
(3,468)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
2,625
(2,625)
—
...
33,401
$
35,999
Our total outstanding long-term debt decreased $3.6 billion during fiscal 2025, primarily due to maturities of certain long-term debt. Refer to
Note 6
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the issuances of long-term debt.
Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $18.2 billion, with approximately $1.7 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2026. Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2025, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments.
44
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were $6.7 billion, $6.1 billion and $6.1 billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Effective February 20, 2025, the Company approved the fiscal 2026 annual dividend of $0.94 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2025 annual dividend of $0.83 per share. For fiscal 2026, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.235 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date
Payable Date
March 21, 2025
...
September 2, 2025
December 12, 2025
January 5, 2026
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. All repurchases made during fiscal 2025 were made under the current $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases. As of January 31, 2025, authorization for $12.0 billion of share repurchases remained under the share repurchase program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2025
2024
2023
...
61.9
54.6
221.8
Average price paid per share
$
72.72
$
50.87
$
44.72
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
4,494
$
...
$
9,920
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations. Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases and purchase obligations. See
Note 6
and
Note 7
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively.
As of January 31, 2025, the Company has $37.2 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $15.9 billion is due within one year. Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts. Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above. Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
45
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets. As of January 31, 2025, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time. Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
Other Matters
In
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in
Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," we discuss, under the sub-captions "
Settlement of Certain Opioid-Related Matters,
"
and
"
Ongoing Opioid-Related Litigation,
" certain opioid-related matters, as well as the Prescription Opiate Litigation, and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom. In that
Note 10
, we discuss "
Asda Equal Value Claims
"
the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, "
Money Transfer Agent Services Matters,
" a United States Federal Trade Commission complaint related to money transfers and the Company's anti-fraud program and a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services, as well as matters related to independent contractor drivers on our Spark platform under "
Driver Platform Matters.
" In
Note 10
, under "
Mexico Antitrust Matter
," we also discuss a quasi-judicial administrative process initiated by COFECE against Walmex and Walmex's related constitutional challenge. In
Note 10
, we also discuss a show cause notice and requests issued by the Directorate of Enforcement to Flipkart regarding Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations in India and an India Antitrust Matter. We reference various legal proceedings related to the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation, Opioids-Related Securities Class Actions, Shareholder Derivative Litigation and False Claims Act Litigation; Asda Equal Value Claims; Money Transfer Agent Services Litigation; Driver Platform Litigation; and Mexico Antitrust Matter in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
," under the sub-caption "I. Supplemental Information." The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology. In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes. Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies including how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements. Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a
46
reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made. Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Uncertain Tax Positions
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. Accordingly, the determination of our uncertain tax positions requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair values of certain equity and equity method investments measured on a recurring basis.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. For fiscal 2025, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $43 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2025.
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal 2026
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
3,068
...
%
5.3
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
2.5
%
(1)
Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2025, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 20% of our total short-term and long-term debt. Based on January 31, 2025 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $0.1 billion.
47
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments and operations in countries other than the U.S., as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt. For fiscal 2025, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $2.2 billion net loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps. The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024, respectively. The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the weakening of certain currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2025. The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.6 billion. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2025 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.1 billion.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to investment risk primarily related to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments, including certain immaterial equity method investments where we have elected the fair value option, measured on a recurring basis. The amounts of gains and losses included in earnings from fair value changes for these investments are recorded within other gains and losses and, along with certain other immaterial investment activity, resulted in a net loss of $0.8 billion in fiscal 2025 primarily due to net decreases in the underlying stock prices of these investments. As of January 31, 2025, the fair value of our equity investments, including certain immaterial equity method investments where we have elected the fair value option, measured on a recurring basis was $3.0 billion. As of January 31, 2025, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $0.3 billion.
48
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025
Table of Contents
...
54
Consolidated Balance Sheets
55
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
56
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
57
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
58
49
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2025 and 2024, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2025, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements"). In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2025 and 2024, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2025, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2025, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 14, 2025 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosures to which it relates.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2025, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. The Company records a liability for those legal proceedings and regulatory matters when management determines it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company also discloses when it is reasonably possible that a material loss may be incurred. In assessing the probability of occurrence and whether an estimate of loss can be reasonably estimated for a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment on matters relevant to each proceeding. Auditing management's accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of loss for contingencies or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
50
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies. For example, we tested controls over the Company's assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company's determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company's assessment of the probability of loss or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the board of directors and committees of the board of directors, reviewed documents provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and outside legal counsel, evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal and outside legal counsel, and obtained representations from management. We also assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures.
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
...
March 14, 2025
51
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2025, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2025, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of January 31, 2025 and 2024, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2025, and the related notes and our report dated March 14, 2025 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2025
2024
2023
Revenues:
Net sales
$
674,538
$
642,637
$
605,881
Membership and other income
6,447
5,488
5,408
Total revenues
680,985
648,125
611,289
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
511,753
490,142
463,721
...
139,884
130,971
127,140
Operating income
29,348
27,012
20,428
Interest:
Debt
2,249
2,259
1,787
Finance lease
479
424
341
...
2,245
2,137
1,874
Other (gains) and losses
794
3,027
1,538
Income before income taxes
26,309
21,848
17,016
Provision for income taxes
6,152
5,578
5,724
Consolidated net income
20,157
16,270
11,292
...
759
)
388
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
19,436
$
15,511
$
11,680
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
2.42
$
1.92
$
1.43
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
2.41
1.91
1.42
...
8,041
8,077
8,171
Diluted
8,081
8,108
8,202
Dividends declared per common share
$
0.8300
$
...
2025
2024
2023
Consolidated net income
$
20,157
$
...
759
)
388
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
19,436
15,511
11,680
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
Currency translation and other
(
2,810
...
(
1,853
)
Cash flow hedges
(
49
)
...
(
203
)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
(
2,859
)
...
(
1,652
)
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
17,298
17,214
9,236
...
Inventories
56,435
54,892
Prepaid expenses and other
4,011
3,322
Total current assets
79,458
76,877
Property and equipment, net
119,993
110,810
Operating lease right-of-use assets
13,599
13,673
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
6,112
5,855
Goodwill
28,792
28,113
Other long-term assets
...
260,823
$
252,399
LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
3,068
$
...
Accrued liabilities
29,345
28,759
Accrued income taxes
608
307
Long-term debt due within one year
2,598
3,447
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,499
1,487
Finance lease obligations due within one year
800
725
Total current liabilities
96,584
92,415
Long-term debt
33,401
36,132
Long-term operating lease obligations
12,825
12,943
Long-term finance lease obligations
5,923
5,709
Deferred income taxes and other
14,398
14,629
Commitments and contingencies
Redeemable noncontrolling interest
271
222
Shareholders' equity:
Common stock
802
805
Capital in excess of par value
5,503
4,544
Retained earnings
98,313
89,814
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
11,302
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
91,013
83,861
Nonredeemable noncontrolling interest
6,408
6,488
Total shareholders' equity
97,421
90,349
Total liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interest, and shareholders' equity
$
260,823
$
...
See accompanying notes.
55
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Shareholders'
Shares
Amount
Par Value
...
8,638
$
91,891
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
388
)
11,292
Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
2,056
)
Cash dividends declared ($
0.7467
per share)
—
...
(
9,866
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
76,693
7,061
83,754
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
15,511
774
16,285
Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
378
566
944
Cash dividends declared ($
0.7600
per share)
—
...
(
2,791
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
83,861
6,488
90,349
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
19,436
766
20,202
Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes
—
—
—
...
(
2,859
)
Cash dividends declared ($
0.8300
per share)
—
...
(
4,477
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
56
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2025
2024
2023
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
20,157
$
16,270
$
11,292
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
12,973
11,853
10,945
Investment (gains) and losses, net
878
3,193
1,683
Deferred income taxes
(
635
)
...
2,889
2,642
1,919
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
(
1,106
...
1,324
)
4,393
Accrued income taxes
435
(
468
...
36,443
35,726
28,841
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
23,783
)
...
(
16,857
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
432
250
170
Proceeds from disposal of certain strategic investments
4,080
—
—
...
(
17,722
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
2,212
512
(
34
)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
4,967
5,041
Repayments of long-term debt
(
3,468
)
...
(
2,689
)
Dividends paid
(
6,688
)
...
(
9,920
)
Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(
576
)
...
9,935
$
8,841
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid
$
5,884
$
5,879
$
3,310
Interest paid
2,739
2,519
2,051
...
Note 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart" or the "Company") is a people-led, technology-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce. Through innovation, the Company is striving to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for its customers.
The Company's operations comprise
three
reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025"), January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024") and January 31, 2023 ("fiscal 2023"). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company consolidates variable interest entities where it has been determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of those entities' operations. Investments in common stock or in-substance common stock for which the Company exercises significant influence but does not have control are accounted for under the equity method. These variable interest entities and equity method investments are immaterial to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for the United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. The Company consolidates all other operations generally using a one-month lag and based on a calendar year. There were no significant intervening events during the month of January 2025 related to the operations consolidated using a lag that materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Use of Estimates
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Management's estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Common Stock Split
On February 23, 2024, the Company effected a
3
-for-1 forward split of its common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of authorized shares. All share and per share information, including share based compensation, has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split. The shares of common stock retain a par value of $
0.10
per share. Accordingly, an amount equal to the par value of the increased shares resulting from the stock split was reclassified from capital in excess of par value to common stock.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
...
62
% and
60
% were held outside of the U.S., respectively. Cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company's non-U.S. operations.
The Company uses intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.
As of January 31, 2025 and 2024, cash and cash equivalents of approximately $
3.3
billion and $
3.5
billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws, other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
58
Receivables
Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for credit losses, and are primarily due from the following: customers, which includes pharmacy insurance companies, advertisers, and banks for customer credit, debit cards and electronic transfer transactions that take in excess of seven days to process; suppliers for marketing or incentive programs; governments for income taxes; and real estate transactions.
Net receivables from transactions with customers were $
4.4
billion and $
3.7
billion as of January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024, respectively.
Inventories
The Company utilizes various inventory methods to account for and value its inventories depending upon the nature of the store formats and businesses in each of its segments, resulting in inventories that are recorded at the lower of cost or market or net realizable value, as appropriate.
•
Walmart U.S. Segment - Inventories are primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting ("RIM") to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method. RIM generally results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market as permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.
•
Walmart International Segment – Depending on the store format in each market, inventories are generally accounted for using either the RIM or weighted-average cost method, using the first-in, first-out valuation method.
•
Sam's Club U.S. Segment - The majority of this segment's inventory is accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.
For those segments that utilize the LIFO method, the Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation. These estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end for inflation or deflation and inventory levels.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred. Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred
.
The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances and includes the estimated useful lives that are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
Estimated Useful Lives
As of January 31,
(Dollars in millions)
...
N/A
15,403
13,390
Property and equipment
231,617
219,859
Accumulated depreciation
...
(
109,049
)
Property and equipment, net
$
119,993
$
110,810
Leasehold improvements are depreciated or amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining expected lease term.
Total depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment, property under finance leases and intangible assets for fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023 was $
13.0
billion, $
11.9
billion and $
10.9
billion, respectively.
Leases
For any new or modified lease, the Company, at the inception of the contract, determines whether a contract is or contains a lease. The Company records right-of-use ("ROU") assets and lease obligations for its finance and operating leases, which are initially recognized based on the discounted future lease payments over the term of the lease. If the rate implicit in the Company's leases is not readily determinable, the Company's applicable incremental borrowing rate is used in calculating the present value of the sum of the lease payments.
Lease term is defined as the non-cancelable period of the lease plus any options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company has elected not to recognize ROU asset and lease obligations for its short-term leases, which are defined as leases with an initial term of 12 months or less.
For a majority of all classes of underlying assets, the Company has elected to not separate lease from non-lease components. For leases in which the lease and non-lease components have been combined, the variable lease expense includes expenses such as common area maintenance, utilities and repairs and maintenance.
59
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual store or club level. Undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the assets' useful lives based on updated projections. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, any potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the related asset or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique.
Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations and is allocated to the appropriate reporting unit when acquired. Other acquired intangible assets are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; rather, they are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired. Definite-lived intangible assets are considered long-lived assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the periods that expected economic benefits will be provided.
Goodwill is typically assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition. Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are evaluated for impairment using either a qualitative or quantitative approach for each of the Company's reporting units. Generally, a qualitative assessment is first performed to determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary. If management determines, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required. The quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed by determining the fair value of the related reporting units. Fair value is measured based on the discounted cash flow method and relative market-based approaches. Management has performed its evaluation and determined the fair value of each reporting unit is significantly greater than the carrying amount and, accordingly, the Company has not recorded any impairment charges related to goodwill during fiscal 2025, fiscal 2024 or fiscal 2023.
The following table reflects goodwill activity, by reportable segment, for fiscal 2025 and 2024:
(Amounts in millions)
Walmart U.S.
Walmart
International
Sam's Club U.S.
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2023
...
$
28,792
1
Goodwill recorded in fiscal 2025 relates to the acquisition of VIZIO Holding Corp. in December 2024 within the Walmart U.S. segment.
Intangible assets are recorded in other long-term assets in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets
. As of January 31, 2025 and 2024, the Company had $
4.5
billion and $
4.1
billion, respectively, in indefinite-lived intangible assets which primarily consists of acquired trade names. There were no significant impairment charges related to intangible assets for fiscal 2025, 2024 or 2023.
Fair Value Measurement
The Company records and discloses certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The fair value of an asset is the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly transaction between unrelated, knowledgeable and willing parties able to engage in the transaction. The fair value of a liability is the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor in a transaction between such parties, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.
Refer to
Note 8
for more information.
Investments
Investments in equity securities are recorded in other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, as well as certain immaterial equity method investments where the Company has elected the fair value option, are measured on a recurring basis (generally using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy) and recognized within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These fair value changes, along with certain other immaterial investment activity, resulted in net losses of $
0.8
billion, $
3.8
...
1.7
billion for fiscal 2025, 2024 and
60
2023, respectively, primarily due to net changes in the underlying stock prices of those investments. Refer to
Note 8
for details. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are carried at cost and adjusted for any observable price changes or impairments within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Investments in debt securities classified as trading are reported at fair value and included in other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and adjustments in fair value are recorded within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company had debt securities classified as trading of $
1.2
billion as of both January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024, the majority of which is mandatorily redeemable in fiscal 2029, related to its retained investment in Asda, the Company's former retail operations in the U.K. The fair value of this investment is primarily estimated (generally using Level 3 inputs in the fair value hierarchy) by discounting the future cash flows over the remaining period until the mandatory redemption date at an appropriate discount rate reflecting Asda’s credit risk.
Indemnification Liabilities
[Total relevant lines: 4612]

================================================================================
FILE: FY2025 10-K (my_reports/WMT/10-K_2026-03-13.html)
================================================================================
xbrli:shares
iso4217:USD
xbrli:shares
wmt:segment
xbrli:pure
iso4217:JPY
wmt:state
...
wmt:case
wmt:classAction
wmt:pharmacist
wmt:employee
wmt:phase
wmt:supplierContribution
iso4217:MXN
...
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2023-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
0000104169
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
...
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
...
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
...
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
...
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
...
srt:MaximumMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MembershipFeesMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
wmt:PhonePeMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:PhonePeMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FlipkartMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:PhonePeMember
...
wmt:RestrictedStockAndPerformanceShareAwardsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EmployeeStockOptionMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ShareRepurchaseProgram2022Member
...
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarwithVariableRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedUSDollarMember
...
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedEurowithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedSterlingwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DenominatedYenwithFixedRateMember
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OtherDebtSecuritiesMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FloatingDebtDue2027Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FloatingDebtDue2027Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.100DebtDue2027Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.100DebtDue2027Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.350DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.350DebtDue2030Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.900DebtDue2035Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A4.900DebtDue2035Member
wmt:SeniorUnsecuredNotesMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
...
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.550Debt875MillionDueJune2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.550Debt875MillionDueJune2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.900Debt1750MillionDueSeptember2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.900Debt1750MillionDueSeptember2025Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.30Debt1500MillionDueApril2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A3.30Debt1500MillionDueApril2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.85Debt990MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.85Debt990MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A0.298Debt40000MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A0.298Debt40000MillionDueJuly2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.650Debt630MillionDueDecember2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:A2.650Debt630MillionDueDecember2024Member
us-gaap:UnsecuredDebtMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel1Member
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel3Member
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:JD.comMember
...
2024-08-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:InterestRateSwapMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:FairValueHedgingMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
...
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
...
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CrossCurrencyInterestRateContractMember
us-gaap:FairValueMeasurementsRecurringMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
us-gaap:CashFlowHedgingMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:CarryingReportedAmountFairValueDisclosureMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:EstimateOfFairValueFairValueDisclosureMember
us-gaap:FairValueInputsLevel2Member
2025-01-31
0000104169
country:MX
...
wmt:OtherlongtermassetsMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DeferredIncomeTaxesandOtherMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OperatingLossAndCapitalLossCarryforwardExpiringBy2046Member
...
wmt:OpioidsLitigationMember
2023-01-31
0000104169
wmt:CanadaOpioidsClassActionComplaintsMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
2025-01-09
0000104169
wmt:AsdaEqualValueClaimsMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:DriverPlatformMattersMember
...
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:PendingLitigationMember
wmt:MexicoAntitrustMatterMember
2024-12-12
0000104169
us-gaap:PendingLitigationMember
wmt:MexicoAntitrustMatterMember
2024-12-12
2024-12-12
0000104169
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2026-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-01-31
0000104169
us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
...
us-gaap:NonUsMember
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:MexicoandCentralAmericaMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
country:CN
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
country:CA
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:OtherMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:WalmartInternationalMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:GroceryMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:FuelAndOtherMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:HealthandWellnessMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2025-02-01
2026-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2024-02-01
2025-01-31
0000104169
wmt:ECommerceMember
wmt:SamsClubUSMember
2023-02-01
2024-01-31
...
ý
No
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes
ý
No
...
☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes
☐
No
☒
As of July 31, 2025, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31, 2025, was $
391,703,475,732
. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant's outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.
The registrant had
...
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Document
Parts Into Which Incorporated
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 4, 2026 (the "Proxy Statement")
Part III
Walmart Inc.
Form 10-K
...
Business
6
Item 1A
Risk Factors
13
Item 1B
Unresolved Staff Comments
...
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
46
Item 8
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
48
Item 9
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
...
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
82
Item 11
Executive Compensation
82
Item 12
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
82
Item 13
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
82
Item 14
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
...
WALMART INC.
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2026
All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to information in the Proxy Statement of Walmart Inc. for its Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be held on June 4, 2026 and in the exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Walmart Inc.," "Walmart," "the Company," "our Company," "we," "us" and "our" are to the Delaware corporation named "Walmart Inc." and, except where expressly noted otherwise or the context otherwise requires, that corporation's consolidated subsidiaries.
PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Exchange Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals. These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•
macroeconomic, geopolitical, and business conditions, trends and events around the world and in the markets in which we operate, including inflation or deflation, generally, and in certain product categories, the impact of supply chain challenges, tariffs and recessionary pressures;
•
changes or modifications in tariff rates, exemptions therefrom or the imposition of new tariffs or new taxes on imports, and changes or modifications in trade restrictions or the imposition of new trade restrictions;
•
the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future, or in or over particular periods, both generally, and with respect to particular markets, segments or lines of business, including, but not limited to, advertising, fulfillment, healthcare and financial services;
•
the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, growth rates, comparable store and club sales, our eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, including share-based compensation, expense leverage, operating income, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store and club openings, inventory levels and associated costs, product mix and demand for certain merchandise, consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending levels, shopping patterns and debt levels;
•
our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology (including the use of artificial intelligence "AI"), automation, supply chain, new stores and clubs as well as remodels and other omnichannel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•
investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•
our workforce strategy, including the availability of necessary personnel to staff our stores, clubs and other facilities and the potential impact of changes to the costs of labor;
•
volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our consolidated, or one or more of our segments' results of operations;
•
the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•
our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•
cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets or credit will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•
our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
4
•
the adoption or creation of new, and modification of existing, governmental policies, programs, initiatives and actions in the markets in which we operate and elsewhere and actions with respect to such policies, programs and initiatives (including, but not limited to, changes in the enforcement priorities of regulatory authorities);
•
the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject, and the liabilities, obligations and expenses, if any, that we may incur in connection therewith, including expenses pertaining to general liability claims, for which we self-insure;
•
the effect on our results of operations or financial position of our adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•
our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to our shared value priorities, including, but not limited to, the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make. The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected," "may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "should," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") is a people-led, technology-powered omnichannel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings. Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omnichannel offering that saves time for our customers. Each week, we serve approximately 280 million customers who visit more than 10,900 stores in 19 countries and through our numerous eCommerce websites and mobile applications.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become more digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"). EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. Our discussion is as of, and for the fiscal years ended, January 31, 2026 ("fiscal 2026"), January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025") and January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"). During fiscal 2026, we generated total revenues of $713.2 billion, which primarily comprised net sales of $706.4 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores, at which time we began to open discount stores. We completed our initial public offering in 1970. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market. In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2026, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 18 countries.
In 1996, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com. Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow. In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site-to-Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. Today, customers can access pickup or delivery services at over 8,400 locations globally, reflecting our ability to leverage our store and club footprint to expand customer access. In 2018, we expanded our eCommerce and digital presence through acquisitions with our majority stakes in Flipkart and PhonePe in India. We continue to heavily invest in omnichannel and eCommerce innovation, as well as supply chain capabilities, which enables us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, and expand our assortment and service offerings, including through the integration of advanced technologies such as AI.
We are enhancing our omnichannel capabilities through a combination of stores, eCommerce websites, mobile applications and service offerings, as well as our supply chain, combined with approximately 2.1 million associates as of January 31, 2026, to better serve our customers. Our strategies increasingly include the use of AI-powered tools to support customer and member-facing experiences, associate productivity and operational efficiency across our ecosystem. Together, these elements produce a global retail ecosystem that we believe allows customers to view Walmart as their primary retail destination. As we execute on our strategy globally, our business continues to expand through offerings such as membership, advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, and financial services. These offerings represent mutually reinforcing pieces of our omnichannel model centered on our customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S., which are further described below. Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently. However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic information is contained in
Note
1
1
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
6
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates 4,611 stores in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and the Walmart mobile application. Walmart U.S. had net sales of $483.0 billion for fiscal 2026, representing 68% of our fiscal 2026 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $462.4 billion and $441.8 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Omnichannel.
Walmart U.S. provides a convenient and seamless omnichannel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce. Substantially all our stores provide same-day pickup and delivery, offering expedited delivery options that enable us to reach customers faster and in the ways they prefer, including in-home delivery and digital pharmacy fulfillment. Our Walmart+ membership offering provides enhanced omnichannel shopping benefits including unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, mobile Scan & Go and access to additional member benefits.
Merchandise and Other Offerings.
Walmart U.S. does business primarily in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•
Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli and bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦
Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦
Fashion (e.g., apparel for adults and children, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦
Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed and bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, and optical services.
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S. We also market lines of merchandise under our private brands, including brands such as: "Athletic Works," "bettergoods," "Equate," "Free Assembly," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Hyper Tough," "Joyspun," "Kid Connection," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "onn.," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "Time and Tru," "Way to Celebrate" and "Wonder Nation." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Avia," "Better Homes & Gardens," "Sofia Jeans by Sofia Vergara" and "The Pioneer Woman."
Other offerings in the Walmart U.S. business include advertising solutions for brands and online marketplace sellers, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers, and data analytics and insights for suppliers and brands. Additional offerings include fuel, financial services and related products such as money orders, prepaid access, money transfers, check cashing, bill payment and certain types of installment lending.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operates 5,743 stores across 18 countries outside of the U.S. Walmart International operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, China, and Africa (which includes Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zambia), and our majority-owned subsidiaries in India, as well as Mexico and Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua).
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into two major categories: retail and wholesale. These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, warehouse clubs (including our membership-only Sam's Club format) and cash and carry, as well as eCommerce through websites and mobile applications, including walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com, PhonePe, samclub.cn and other sites. Walmart International had net sales of $130.4 billion for fiscal 2026, representing 19% of our fiscal 2026 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $121.9 billion and $114.6 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Walmart International's purpose is to help millions of customers and members save money and live better every day by leveraging our global ecosystem and deep local expertise to provide access to affordable products and services. In addition, we share what we learn in our markets to help the enterprise innovate and grow even faster. We are deliberate about where and how we choose to operate to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth.
7
Omnichannel.
Walmart International provides a convenient and seamless omnichannel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through our pickup and delivery services from approximately 3,300 locations across all of our markets, including same-day and expedited delivery options across our markets. We continue to expand our marketplace offerings, which further enhances our fulfillment and advertising services.
Merchandise and Other Offerings.
The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "Member's Mark" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera" and "Lider." In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart International continues to build mutually reinforcing businesses in areas such as advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, financial services and healthcare.
Sam's Club U.S. Segment
Sam's Club U.S. is a membership-only warehouse club that operates 601 clubs in 44 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and also operates samsclub.com and the Sam's Club mobile application. Sam's Club U.S. had net sales of $93.0 billion for fiscal 2026, representing 13% of our consolidated fiscal 2026 net sales, and had net sales of $90.2 billion and $86.2 billion for fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. As a membership-only club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income.
Membership.
The following two membership tiers are available: Club membership for a $50 annual fee and Plus membership for a $110 annual fee. All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost, and members may purchase add-on memberships for $45 each, subject to tier-based limits. Club members are eligible for free curbside pickup, and Plus members receive additional benefits including free delivery-from-club and free shipping on orders of $50 or greater, exclusive discounts and convenience offers, and the ability to shop before regular shopping hours. Members may also earn Sam's Cash rewards on qualifying purchases that can be redeemed for cash, used for purchases, or used to pay membership fees.
Omnichannel.
Sam's Club U.S. provides a fast and seamless omnichannel experience to members, integrating physical clubs and eCommerce. Club-fulfilled curbside pickup and delivery provides fast and convenient ways to shop for members; Scan & Go mobile checkout and payment solution allows members to bypass the checkout line; and Just Go provides members with a friction-free exit experience.
Merchandise and Other Offerings.
Sam's Club U.S. offers merchandise in the following four merchandise categories:
•
Grocery consists of dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, protein and nutrition, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•
General merchandise includes:
◦
Home, hardlines and seasonal items (such as home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys and mattresses); and
◦
Technology and entertainment items (such as consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances and third-party gift cards).
•
Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services, and over-the-counter drugs; and
•
Fuel and other categories.
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Within the categories above, the Sam's Club Member's Mark private label brand offers premium-quality, "Made Without" products across a wide range of categories at competitive, value-driven prices, designed to meet the needs of members. We continue to expand its assortment to reinforce Sam's Club value proposition to our members.
Other offerings in the Sam's Club U.S. business include advertising solutions for brands as well as operational insights and analytics for suppliers. Additional offerings include tire and battery installation services, photo and tech assistance, home and auto solutions, and certain financial services and related products.
8
Additional Information About Our Business
Competition.
We compete with brick and mortar, eCommerce and omnichannel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocery, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, membership-only warehouse clubs, gasoline stations and social commerce platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services. Our ability to develop and effectively operate different formats at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omnichannel experience largely determines our competitive position in the retail industry within the markets where we operate. Each of these landscapes is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and new business models and the entry of new, well-funded competitors continue to intensify this competition. Some of our competitors have longer histories in these lines of business, more customers and greater brand recognition. They may be able to obtain more favorable terms from suppliers and business partners and to devote greater resources to the development of these businesses. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise and selection availability, services offered to customers, the quality of the products and services we offer, location, store and club hours, on-site amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omnichannel integration of our physical and digital operations. We employ many strategies and programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry, which increasingly incorporate the use of AI-powered tools. These strategies include the following:
•
EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•
EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers;
•
Omnichannel offerings such as pickup and delivery, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served;
•
Expanding our ecosystem and the products and services we offer in areas such as digital advertising, marketplace and fulfillment services, health and wellness, and financial services to provide our customers a broader set of offerings to meet expanding needs;
•
Opening new stores and clubs, as well as remodeling existing locations, to enhance the customer experience, support omnichannel capabilities, and strengthen our physical footprint in existing and new markets; and
•
Investing in technology, automation, and our associates to deliver growth, expand operating margins and improve returns.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations.
Our business is seasonal to a certain extent and varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, our highest sales volume for each segment has occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.
Suppliers, Supply Chain and Distribution.
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly perishable items. Consistent with applicable laws, we offer our suppliers the opportunity to efficiently sell significant quantities of their products to us. These relationships enable us to obtain pricing that reflects the volume, certainty and cost-effectiveness these arrangements provide to such suppliers, which in turn enables us to provide low prices to our customers. Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customers, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs, determines, along with other supply chain logistics matters (such as containers or port access for example), in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
We continue to invest in supply chain automation and our fulfillment and delivery capabilities to better serve our customers. In the U.S., we utilize a network of 192 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the country using a combination of our private truck fleet as well as contracting with common carriers. During fiscal 2026, we began combining the Sam's Club U.S. supply chain function with Walmart U.S. to streamline operations and leverage our enterprise systems and infrastructure over time. Outside the U.S., we utilize a total of 179 distribution facilities strategically located in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico, which process and distribute both imported and domestic products to where our customers live. For fiscal 2026, the majority of our purchases of store and club merchandise were shipped through these facilities, while most of the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers to our stores and clubs. As an omnichannel retailer, we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations, including leveraging our network of stores and clubs to fulfill and deliver customer orders, as well as shipping directly from eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution facilities.
9
Intellectual Property.
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent laws, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Government Regulation.
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
" under the sub-caption "Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks."
Our Shared Value Priorities
As part of our purpose to help people save money and live better, we seek to operate our business in a way that creates shared value. We believe we maximize long-term value and competitive advantage by delivering for stakeholders, customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, partners and communities. Addressing their needs strengthens our business by building trust, creating opportunity, managing cost and risk, developing future capabilities and reinforcing the systems on which we rely.
We prioritize stakeholder issues with the greatest potential to create long-term shared value – those most relevant to our business, important to stakeholder trust and where Walmart can make a meaningful impact.
•
Opportunity
. Expanding economic opportunity for associates, suppliers and communities helps us attract and retain talent, meet customer needs and strengthen resilience. As described further below, our workforce strategy focuses on preparing our workforce for the future by aligning skills with evolving business needs and investing in career pathways and learning. We also support supplier growth through development programs and sourcing from a diverse mix of local and global suppliers.
•
Sustainability
. Walmart's sustainability efforts focus on enhancing the resilience of our operations and product value chai
ns to enhance surety of supply, catalyze innovation and growth, maintain everyday low cost and build stakeholder trust. Our priorities include reducing greenhouse gas emissions, regenerating natural resources, reducing product and packaging waste and supporting people who work in supply chains through responsible sourcing and the creation of economic opportunity.
•
Community
.
We serve customers globally through our omnichannel model and contribute to community vitality by providing quality jobs and training, investing in local suppliers, supporting causes important to customers and associates and assisting communities during crises and natural disasters.
•
Ethics and Integrity
. We foster
trust by promoting ethics and compliance, maintaining strong governance and oversight, engaging responsibly in public policy, using data and technology responsibly and respecting human rights.
We report periodically on these priorities through
environmental, social and governance
disclosures on our corporate website, which are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC.
Human Capital Management
As Walmart grows, the way we attract, develop and reward talent – and design how work gets done – evolves alongside our business. Our business is focused on serving people and this is delivered by our approximately 2.1 million associates around the world with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and approximately 0.5 million associates internationally. In the U.S., approximately 92% of our associates are hourly and approximately 68% of our associates are full-time. Our workforce strategy reflects our commitment to creating a future-ready workforce, supporting associate growth, and fostering a culture where associates can thrive.
Workforce Strategy and Enablement.
Our workforce strategy focuses on aligning our organizational structure, talent capabilities and technology investments with the evolving needs of the business, including development of a digitally skilled, AI-enabled workforce. This includes preparing associates for new roles, technologies and ways of working, as well as deploying digital tools that support associate effectiveness, engagement and performance. As part of this effort, we are making everyday work simpler and more meaningful by reshaping roles to emphasize uniquely human strengths such as creativity and leadership and identifying areas where AI can automate repetitive tasks.
We are committed to maintaining fair and competitive workforce practices as we evolve how work gets done. We regularly review our workforce practices to support consistency, accountability and long-term sustainability, and we maintain a performance-based culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance and the work they do.
10
Associate Growth and Development.
Investment in associate growth and development supports skill-building, leadership development and overall business performance. Development programs are designed to meet both individual and business needs, offering multiple career pathways and learning opportunities across roles, levels and geographies. Our development approach focuses on building leadership, technical and professional capabilities and equipping associates with the skills required for a changing environment. This includes company‑wide AI learning pathways and certifications designed to meet associates where they are.
Internal career mobility is an important component of our talent model. Approximately 75% of U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management associates began their careers in hourly positions, reflecting long‑term advancement opportunities within the Company.
Development is further supported through targeted programs such as Walmart Academy, which provides training in retail skills, leadership and well‑being, along with Live Better U, which offers eligible associates access to high school diplomas, certificates, skills credentials and college degrees that are aligned to business needs and in-demand roles.
By investing in development, career mobility and skills, we strengthen our associate value proposition and support a workforce capable of adapting as our business evolves.
Associate Experience and Engagement.
Our efforts focus on supporting associate well-being, listening and a culture of belonging. We prioritize the financial, physical and mental well-being of our associates by offering competitive wages and a broad range of benefits designed to meet the diverse needs of our global workforce and their eligible dependents. In the U.S., these benefits include a 401(k) match, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, associate discounts, predictable scheduling practices, paid time off, life insurance, medical coverage (for most plans, this includes no-cost virtual care and no-cost centers of excellence program for certain complex conditions), behavioral health services, family building benefits, maternity leave and paid parental leave for full-time associates.
We focus on creating a workplace where associates feel seen, supported and connected, and where they can perform at their best. Associate perspectives help shape the workplace through listening channels such as in-person dialogue, leadership visits and listening sessions, associate engagement surveys, pulse surveys and always-on confidential reporting mechanisms, including Open Door and ethics processes.
Walmart's culture is grounded in our core value of "Respect the Individual," and we believe in fostering a culture where everyone belongs—for associates and for driving business success. When associates feel valued for who they are, engagement deepens and associates are empowered to better serve our customers and members while delivering innovative solutions for our business. As part of our commitment to accountability and transparency, we publish workforce representation data and provide recurring updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and to members of our Board of Directors.
Additional information about our associates and our investments in them can be found on our corporate website,
which are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference into any of our other filings with the SEC
. Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in
Note 10
to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. We file with, or furnish to, the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings, our Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers and our Code of Conduct can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.
A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Walmart's Reporting Protocols for Senior Financial Officers or our Code of Conduct for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.
11
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following chart names the executive officers of the Company as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, each of whom is elected by, and serves at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.
...
Held Since
Age
Daniel J. Bartlett
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, effective June 2013. From November 2007 to June 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer and President of U.S. Operations at Hill & Knowlton, Inc., a public relations company.
2013
54
Seth Dallaire
Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer, effective February 2026. From October 2024 to February 2026, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer, Walmart U.S. From November 2021 to October 2024, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer, Walmart U.S. From November 2019 to November 2021 he served as Chief Revenue Officer at Instacart.
2026
55
Daniel Danker
Executive Vice President, AI Acceleration, Product and Design, effective August 2025. From March 2021 to August 2025, he worked at Instacart in various roles, including most recently, Chief Product Officer and Head of Online Grocery. From July 2018 to March 2021, he worked at Uber in various roles, including most recently Head of Product, Uber Eats.
2025
45
John Furner
President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 2026. From November 2019 to February 2026, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.
2026
51
David Guggina
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S., effective February 2026. From January 2025 to February 2026, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief eCommerce Officer, Walmart U.S. From November 2022 to January 2025, he served as Executive Vice President, Supply Chain, Walmart U.S. From April 2021 to November 2022, he served as Senior Vice President, Innovation and Automation, Walmart U.S. From December 2019 to April 2021, he served as Senior Vice President, Product and Engineering, Walmart U.S.
2026
40
Suresh Kumar
Executive Vice President, Global Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer, effective July 2019. From February 2018 until June 2019, Mr. Kumar was Vice President and General Manager at Google LLC.
2019
61
Dwayne Milum
Senior Vice President and Controller, effective February 2026. From April 2022 to February 2026, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Audit Executive. From October 2016 to April 2022, he served as Vice President and Controller for Walmart International.
2026
50
Donna Morris
Executive Vice President, Global People, and Chief People Officer, effective February 2020. From April 2002 to January 2020, she worked at Adobe Inc. in various roles, including most recently, Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Employee Experience.
2020
58
Christopher Nicholas
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International, effective February 2026. From September 2023 to February 2026 he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club U.S.
From October 2021 to September 2023, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart U.S. From February 2021 to October 2021, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Walmart U.S. From January 2020 to February 2021, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Walmart International.
2026
49
John David Rainey
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective June 2022. From September 2015 to June 2022, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations for PayPal Holdings, Inc.
2022
55
Latriece Watkins
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam's Club U.S., effective February 2026. From May 2023 to February 2026, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Walmart U.S. From December 2020 to May 2023, she served as Executive Vice President, Consumables, Walmart U.S.
2026
51
12
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
The risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally. The following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face. The disclosures below reflect our beliefs and opinions as to risk factors that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and our securities in the future. References to past events are provided by way of example only and are not intended to be a complete listing or a representation as to whether or not such risk factors have occurred in the past or their likelihood of occurring in the future.
Strategic Risks
Failure to successfully execute our omnichannel strategy and the cost of our investments in eCommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.
The retail business continues to rapidly evolve with consumers embracing the digital shopping experience and expecting a robust online marketplace of goods available for purchase and delivery. As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could continue to accelerate.
Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, AI, talent, supply chain automation and enhancements, advertising, acquisitions, joint ventures, new store and club openings and remodels and other customer initiatives, may not adequately or effectively allow us to continue to grow our omnichannel business offerings, increase comparable sales or maintain or grow our overall market position. The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omnichannel shopping experience and interconnected ecosystem for our customers that deepens and maintains our relationships with our customers across our various businesses and partnerships. Customers are using digital means, including websites, captive and third-party digital applications, social media, and emerging agentic platforms to shop with us and our competitors and to do comparison shopping, and we use these digital means along with digital advertising, text messages and email to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience.
The success of this strategy is further subject to the related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. With the interconnected components of this enterprise strategy and an increasing allocation of capital expenditures focused on these initiatives, changes in customer or member perceptions about our reputation in general, or our failure to successfully execute on individual components of this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance, which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets. In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales and the increasing role of AI-enabled platforms in product search, discovery, advertising and purchasing, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, the cost of certain investments in eCommerce, technology, talent and automation, including any operating losses incurred for those initiatives, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.
If we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our reputation, relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.
It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns, tastes and preferences. The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and services and the competitive environment. Our business is dependent on our ability to make critical decisions and predictions with respect to merchandise categories that quickly respond to changing consumer spending patterns, tastes and preferences, and any incorrect calculations by us may result in lower sales, spoilage and inventory markdowns, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to predict and adapt to changing tastes and preferences depends on many factors, including obtaining accurate and relevant data on customer preferences, emphasizing relevant merchandise categories, effectively managing our inventory levels, implementing competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies. Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools, social media, and emerging agentic tools available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to develop, integrate and scale digital tools, including AI-powered search and discovery platforms and capabilities, useful interfaces and other marketing tools such as third-party recommendation engines, paid search and mobile applications. We must continue to preserve our reputation, which is impacted by public perceptions and customer experiences. It may be difficult to address negative publicity across media channels, regardless of whether it is accurate. Negative incidents, including the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or theft, ineffective use or misuse of AI technologies, inaccurate, biased or otherwise flawed
13
AI search and discovery results, or a data breach as a result of a cyberattack could quickly erode trust and confidence in our business and could result in customer dissatisfaction, consumer boycotts, workforce unrest and government investigations. These incidents may involve us, our vendors that handle our data or personal information, our workforce or others with whom we do business, including third-party service providers and independent contractors. Societal expectations, preferences, trends and political expression are ever-changing and we try to adapt, evolve and maintain a balance that meets the acceptance of our customers, members, associates, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders, but we may not always move as quickly or in the direction that various competing interests desire or demand, which could impact our reputation. For instance, strong opinions continue to be publicly expressed both for and against various social and environmental initiatives and positions taken by many corporations, including Walmart, are tracked, monitored and subject to heightened scrutiny from consumers, investors, advocacy groups and public figures, potentially leading to consumer boycotts, negative publicity campaigns, litigation and reputational harm. Negative reputational incidents or negative perceptions of us could adversely impact our business and results of operations, including through lower sales, the termination of business relationships and negative impacts to associate retention and recruiting efforts. Moreover, failure to adequately predict customer demand and consumer spending patterns or otherwise optimize and operate our distribution and fulfillment centers could result in excess or insufficient inventory, service interruptions and increased costs, any of which could significantly harm our business. As we continue to add new fulfillment centers, our fulfillment and technology networks become increasingly complex and operating them in a way that effectively meets consumer demands continues to be challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our networks effectively.
We face strong competition from other retailers, wholesale club operators, omnichannel retailers and other businesses which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical, eCommerce and omnichannel retailers, social commerce platforms, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries, and emerging agentic shopping tools and platforms, as well as companies that offer services in digital advertising, data analytics/insights, fulfillment and delivery services, health and wellness and financial services. The omnichannel retail landscape is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and the entry of new, well-funded competitors, or more rapid development of AI capabilities and agentic tools by these competitors to enhance productivity and the shopping experience, may increase competitive pressures. In addition, for eCommerce and other internet-based businesses, newer or smaller businesses may be better able to innovate and compete with us.
We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, quality and accessibility of data for customers, suppliers, and associates, and cost, speed of and options for accurate delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omnichannel integration of our physical and digital operations.
A failure to respond effectively to these competitive pressures and changes in the retail and other markets in which we operate, omnichannel innovations and omnichannel ecosystems developed by our competitors or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance. See "
Item 1. Business
" above for additional discussion of the competitive landscape of our business.
Further, the protection of our proprietary rights, including our trademarks, copyrights, domain names, patents and trade secrets, is important to our business. Effective protection of our proprietary rights may not be available in every jurisdiction in which we offer our products and services, and we may not be able to prevent or deter third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property, or ensure that third parties will not independently develop equivalent or superior intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to maintain a competitive advantage and adversely impact our business.
Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation or substantially reducing operations, whether due to bankruptcy, economics or other factors. Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, competitive omnichannel ecosystems or reductions in operations may result in competitors with improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations or alliances could allow these companies to provide a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance.
General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.
General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher interest rates, higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, increased costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in GDP and consumer purchasing power (including from reductions resulting from changes to government programs), unavailability of
14
consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of export and import restrictions, tariffs, trade barriers or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the U.S., or in any of the other markets in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to any one or more markets with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales, growth rates, operating income and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets.
In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, including energy prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.
The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale, or adversely impact product margins due to higher labor and material costs of our suppliers that we are unable, or choose not, to pass on to our customers.
The performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our business. These arrangements may not generate the level of sales or profitability we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, business relationship or in certain of our divested markets, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Operational Risks
Global or regional health pandemics or epidemics could negatively impact our business, financial position and results of operations.
The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional pandemics, epidemics or other health crises are uncertain and difficult to predict. A pandemic, epidemic or contagious disease outbreak that affects humans or the food supply, such as the avian flu impact on poultry and egg production could impact our business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, access to inventory, supply chain operations, ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation and financial performance, among other things. In the event of any global or regional health crisis, customer demand for certain products may fluctuate, customer behaviors may change and consumer disposable income could be negatively impacted, which may challenge our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These risks and their impacts are difficult to predict and could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and our financial performance.
To the extent that a future pandemic, epidemic or contagious disease outbreak occurs, such events may also heighten other risks described in this Item 1A, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, our reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, and litigation and regulatory requirements.
Natural disasters, climate change, geopolitical events, catastrophic and other events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Natural disasters and weather conditions, which may include hurricanes, tropical storms, typhoons, floods, wildfires, cyclones, tornadoes, winter storms, droughts, extreme temperatures, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance, and a changing climate could exacerbate certain of these events and conditions. Moreover, geopolitical tensions or events such as war; civil unrest (including theft, looting or vandalism); terrorist attacks; acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our U.S. stores); or similar disruptions in countries or regions in which our suppliers operate or through which goods are transported could materially adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Protecting the safety of our associates, including our senior leaders, is critical to preventing business disruption and executing on our business strategies and objectives.
The occurrence of these events could result in immediate and longer-term impacts on our operations, including physical damage or loss of properties, the closure of stores, clubs and distribution or fulfillment centers, limited operating hours, workforce shortages and challenges in labor availability, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our
15
stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution and fulfillment centers are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, and changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise). These events could also lead to temporary or long-term disruption in our supply chains, including by disrupting or delaying the delivery of goods to our distribution and fulfillment centers, stores and customers, negatively impacting consumers' disposable income; reducing the availability of products in our stores; increasing the costs of procuring products; increasing transportation costs (whether due to fuel prices, fuel supply or otherwise); disrupting critical infrastructure systems, banking systems, utility services or energy availability to our stores, clubs and our facilities; and disrupting communications with our stores, clubs and our other facilities.
We bear the majority of the costs associated with adaptation and the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs, distribution or fulfillment centers and transportation vehicles and equipment; theft, loss or spoilage of inventory; and business interruption caused by such events. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, our operations in the U.S. comprise a significant portion of our financial and operational performance. Therefore, any of the above matters that uniquely impact or are specifically concentrated in the U.S. could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner and in the large volumes we may demand, are significant challenges, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.
We are exposed to a number of risks in our relationships with our suppliers, many of which are beyond our control, and which could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. These risks include political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries and regions in which our suppliers are located, goods are manufactured and located, and through which goods are transported; the financial instability of suppliers; suppliers not having the financial ability or capacity to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us if called upon, thereby exposing us to the full cost of risks and claims; suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards); labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers; the availability of raw materials to suppliers; extreme weather events impacting the growing, manufacturing, mining and harvesting of commodities and products; merchandise safety and quality issues; disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs and other facilities, including as a result of extreme weather or labor slowdowns; currency exchange rates; transport availability and cost; transport security; and inflation.
In addition, U.S. and international trade policies, tariffs, trade barriers and other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods, trade sanctions imposed between certain countries and entities, the limitation on the exportation or importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers, our access to products and our access to service providers (such as transportation and logistics providers) could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.
If the quality or safety of products we sell in stores or online fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries caused by a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance.
Our customers count on us to provide them with quality products at an affordable price. Occasionally, the quality of products that we source from our suppliers fails to meet customer expectations. In many cases, these products are subject to regulatory action or recall. For general merchandise, this could be because the product fails to meet safety standards. For food products, it could be because the product is a source of foodborne illness. For health and wellness products, it could be because the product does not produce the expected result for the customer or harms the customer. Any of these factors could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to choose to buy products from a different retailer, even if the quality issue is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. When a product we sell does not meet quality or safety standards, there is an increased risk of liability for harm the product may cause our customers. While we rely on our suppliers to meet our safety and quality expectations, and to indemnify us if their products do not, certain suppliers may not have the financial capacity or ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. In that case, we may be exposed to the full cost of liability claims. Any issue regarding the quality or safety of products we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.
16
If the quality or safety of products offered for sale on our third-party marketplace fails to meet our customers' expectations or regulatory standards, we could be held directly liable, lose customers, become subject to regulatory enforcement or otherwise experience reputational harm.
Some of the products customers buy from our website are sold by third parties, which we refer to as marketplace transactions. While that transaction ultimately occurs between the third-party seller and the customer, some regulators and courts have taken a view that the retailer is responsible for marketplace transactions that occur on a retailer's digital platform. Unsettled law on whether a retailer is responsible for intellectual property or product liability claims related to marketplace transactions creates additional risk. Any unfavorable changes or legal interpretations could further expose us to liability. Our arrangements with our third-party marketplace sellers are complex and we may not be able to implement, maintain and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, content and engaging other third parties to perform services.
In addition, poor quality or safety of third-party products offered for sale on our platforms could erode customer trust, leading to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position. In addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability for third-party products offered for sale on our platform that are controversial, counterfeit, pirated or stolen or that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may not be able to collect sufficient damages for these types of breaches from third-party sellers. Furthermore, even if we are successful in negotiating a contractual shift in risk of loss to third parties, a regulator may view us as having responsibility for regulatory compliance of the third-party products offered for sale on our platform. Although we have marketplace compliance controls in place and impose contractual terms on sellers to prohibit sales of non-compliant products, we may not be able prevent sellers from offering prohibited items for sale, enforce such terms or fully protect against regulatory risk. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our eCommerce growth and enterprise strategy.
We rely extensively on information and financial systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.
Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security incidents and breaches from a variety of threat actors, including both cybercriminals and nation state-sponsored actors and catastrophic events noted above in this
Item 1A
. The availability of our information systems and the integrity of data are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. Our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, breached, attacked, interrupted or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. Any interruption to the availability of our information systems or corruption of our data may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, the cost of securing our systems against failure or attack is considerable, and increases in these costs, particularly in the wake of a breach or failure, could be significant.
In addition, we frequently update our information technology hardware, software, processes and systems. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. If we fail to timely or successfully integrate and update our information systems and processes, system disruptions may occur and we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be negatively impacted.
If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online and enable us to deliver products and services do not function effectively, or keep pace with similar offerings of our competitors, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omnichannel business globally, could be materially adversely affected.
As noted above, customers are using digital means, including websites, captive and third-party digital applications, social media, and emerging agentic platforms to shop with us and our competitors and to do comparison shopping, and we use these digital means along with digital advertising, text messages and email to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience. As a part of our omnichannel sales strategy, we offer various pickup, delivery and shipping programs including options where many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. Omnichannel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world, and we continue to make investments in supply chain automation and enhancements to support our omnichannel strategy. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment, and structuring these offerings in a manner that allows us to maintain a direct relationship with our customers. We continue to invest in AI to enhance our customers' shopping experience and our associate work experience and to improve efficiencies of our supply chain, operations, management functions and talent recruitment and development; however, these are evolving technologies, there are
17
inherent operational and legal complexities associated with implementation of these technologies within our business, and there can be no assurance that these investments will deliver the anticipated benefits, or that we will be able to adopt and leverage these technologies as quickly or effectively as our competitors. When integrating and introducing AI technologies into our platforms, processes and systems, we may be exposed to new or expanded liabilities and risks due to elevated governmental scrutiny and monitoring, litigation, data privacy risks and compliance issues in a disparate and at times conflicting regulatory environment, all of which could negatively affect our financial performance and business reputation.
Some of the various technology systems and services on which we rely are provided and managed by an increasing number of third-party service providers. To the extent either our or such other third-party systems and services do not perform or function as anticipated, whether because of an inherent flaw in the technology, faulty implementation or a cybersecurity incident, such failure can significantly interfere with our ability to meet our customers' changing expectations. Any disruption or failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly and secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise and services at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online, digital, and agentic merchandising and related technology in a cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
Any failure to maintain the privacy or security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates, business partners and vendors, whether as a result of cyberattacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, result in fines, penalties, and liability, cause us to incur substantial additional costs and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.
Like most retailers, we process in our information systems personal information and/or payment information about our customers and members, and we also process information concerning our associates and vendors. In addition, our health and wellness business operations and third-party service providers who handle information on our behalf store and maintain protected health information. We also collect certain consumer data, which is stored digitally and used to conduct and facilitate our businesses. We utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, compute capacity, medical record documentation, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support and other functions. Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates, business partners or vendors. In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for disrupting or obtaining access to information systems or information stored in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases, they may lead to successful attacks. Unauthorized activities directed against information systems and devices, whether our own or those of our third-party service providers and vendors, have resulted in cybersecurity incidents, including malware, ransomware, denial of service attacks or phishing incidents. We expect that our information systems and those of our third-party service providers, vendors and suppliers will continue to experience such attacks in the future, which could include disruptions to our supply chain system. Cyberattacks and threat actors can be sponsored by particular nation-states, or be the work of sophisticated criminal organizations, insiders (including our associates or contractors) or third parties, each with a wide range of motives and expertise. We and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience incidents and threats to data and information systems. These incidents and threats have included and are likely to continue to include both random and targeted cyberattacks, computer viruses, phishing incidents, worms, bot attacks, ransomware or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card and payment information, and cause system failures and disruptions. The use of remote work infrastructure in recent years has also increased the possible attack surfaces to be exploited. Our logging capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. Continued advancements and increased use of AI have intensified existing cybersecurity risks by enabling faster and more automated attack techniques, lowering the barrier to creating sophisticated threats, and further compressing the time in which we must detect and respond to potential threats. Advances in AI are also creating novel categories of cyber threats in which attackers use AI systems to autonomously conduct reconnaissance, generate and tailor exploit code, harvest credentials, craft highly convincing social‑engineering content, and execute large‑scale intrusion or extortion campaigns with minimal human involvement. As noted above, some of our information systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents or breaches, including during fiscal 2026, and, although to date they have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results or business, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future.
Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems used in legacy operations and acquired eCommerce, technology or other businesses, are regularly subject to cyberattacks. Those attacks involve attempts to impede the operations of our system or gain unauthorized access to our eCommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including personal information and/or payment information, and related risks discussed in this
Item 1A
. Such attacks, if successful, may result in potential data and personal
18
information misuse and/or loss and may create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage the information systems that enable or support one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience, our supply chain integrity and continuity and our ability to efficiently operate our business. If we are unable to maintain the security of the information systems that enable or support our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could be subject to regulatory fines, suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers, members or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.
Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password and identity management, social engineering or other vulnerabilities and irregularities may also result in a defeat of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and a compromise or breach of our or their information systems. Moreover, the hardware, software or applications that comprise our information system and networked environment may have vulnerabilities or defects of design, coding, manufacture or operations that could be intentionally exploited or inadvertently used in a manner that could compromise information security. Given the age, size and complexity of these information systems and our networked environment, patches for certain vulnerabilities may not exist and, even where patches or other risk-mitigating activities are available, the deployment of patches or execution of risk-mitigating actions may not occur before an underlying vulnerability is exploited by threat actors or inadvertently results in the compromise of our information systems or data.
Any compromise of our information systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in regulated data or confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, disclosed, destroyed, modified, lost or used by unauthorized persons could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions (including, with respect to health information, liability under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, collectively known as "HIPAA" and with respect to personal information, liability under international and state data breach notification laws), customer attrition, remediation expenses and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation, financial position and results of operations.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems or data change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, or detect the activities of a threat actor. Moreover, the increasing sophistication of AI technologies poses a greater risk of identity fraud, as malicious actors may exploit AI to create convincing false identities or manipulate verification processes. Even if we detect a fraudulent or cybersecurity incident, the nature and extent of that incident may not be immediately clear. Based on the sophistication of the threat actors and the size and complexity of our information systems and networked environment, among other factors, an investigation into a cybersecurity incident could take a significant amount of time to complete. We may not understand or appreciate that what is detected and treated as multiple individual cybersecurity incidents or events may be associated with the coordinated actions of a single threat actor or group. In addition, while our investigation of a cybersecurity incident is ongoing, we may not know the full extent of the harm caused by a threat actor, and such harm may spread both internally and to certain customers, vendors or other third parties. These factors may inhibit our ability to provide rapid, complete and reliable information about the cybersecurity incident to customers, counterparties and regulators, as well as the public. It may also not be clear how best to contain and remediate any harm caused by the cybersecurity incident, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. Any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
To the extent that any cyberattack, ransomware or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, members, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.
Our compliance programs, information technology and enterprise risk management efforts cannot eliminate all systemic risk. Disruptions in our systems caused by associate error or malfeasance, security incidents, breaches or cyberattacks – including attacks on those parties we do business with (such as strategic partners, suppliers, banks or utility companies) – could harm our ability to conduct our operations, which may have a material effect on us, may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, or may have a cascading effect that adversely impacts our partners, third-party service providers, customers, members, financial services firms and other third parties that we interact with on a regular basis.
Our reputation with our customers and members is important to the success of our enterprise strategy, which combines traditional retail, membership models, marketplaces, financial services, health and wellness and other customer and business services into a series of interconnected assets to make it seamless for customers to interact with us. Security-related events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and
19
could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores, thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, growth rates, operating income, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity. Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial position and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. Moreover, a security compromise or operationally impactful malware event, such as ransomware, could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations.
We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, electronic benefits transfer (EBT) cards, mobile payments and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. We cannot be certain that the security measures we or our third-party suppliers maintain are able to detect, prevent or contain cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, security incidents, breaches or other compromises from malware, ransomware or other threats that are known or may be developed in the future. In certain circumstances, our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.
We also have compliance obligations associated with privacy laws enacted to protect and regulate the collection, use, retention, disclosure and transfer of personal information, which include liability for security and privacy breaches. A growing patchwork of AI laws and targeted privacy and consumer protection statutes may also create varying obligations around notice, customer rights and appeals, data minimization, restrictions on sensitive data, targeted advertising and certain forms of profiling, and these requirements continue to evolve. Among other obligations, breaches may trigger obligations under U.S. federal and state laws and laws in certain other countries to notify affected individuals, government agencies and the media. Consequently, cybersecurity incidents that result in a data breach or our failure to comply with such laws could subject us to fines, sanctions and other legal liability and harm our reputation.
Changes in third-party reimbursements and contracts, type, or scope of offerings of our health and wellness business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
We have retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. segments across the U.S. and in various of our international markets such as Canada and Mexico.
A large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("PBMs"). Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, pharmacy payer network arrangements, including exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; increased governmental focus on reducing drug prices including most favored nation pricing policies, maximum fair price negotiations, and direct-to-consumer pharmacy delivery models; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations including competitors offering online retail pharmacy options and/or home delivery options; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; changes in laws or regulations or the practices of third-party payers and PBMs related to the use of third-party financial assistance to assist our pharmacy customers with paying for drugs prescribed for them; and any additional
changes in the state or federal regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of health reform efforts and other changes to or novel interpretations of existing state or federal laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.
20
If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals. Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.
One or a combination of the factors above may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities. In addition, these and other factors may adversely affect the type, volume and mix of services we provide and the reimbursement we receive for health and wellness services rendered. Any of these developments could, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.
Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including our enterprise strategy and management transitions within our senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success. We compete for talent with other retail and non-retail businesses, including, for example, technology, health and wellness and fintech businesses, and invest significant resources in training and motivating our associates. Increased competition among potential employers at all levels, including senior management and executive levels, could result in increased associate costs or make it more difficult to recruit and retain associates. If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.
In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new, revised or novel interpretations of existing labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws, including those related to worker classification, are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.
Illegal or inappropriate activity of our independent contractors or third-party service providers could expose us to liability and adversely affect our business, reputation and financial performance.
We are subject to risks related to our engagement of independent contractors or other third-party service providers. The qualification processes and background checks we utilize when engaging independent contractors may not reveal all potentially relevant information, including accurate worker authorization information and criminal history. If these independent contractors engage in misconduct, consumers may not consider our goods and services safe, and we may receive negative press coverage. Further, we have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, losses from various types of fraud with respect to unauthorized uses of another person's identity and use of fraudulent identification documents. Any physical injury, loss of life, fraud, property and/or financial damage caused by our independent contractors or third-party service providers could adversely affect our business reputation, which could negatively affect demand for our goods and services, lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure and adversely affect our financial performance.
Financial Risks
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.
We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income, growth rates, eCommerce growth rates, advertising and other higher-margin initiatives (which are expected to help drive our operating income growth at a rate faster than net sales over the long term), capital expenditures, comparable store and club sales growth rates or earnings and adjusted earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies, changes in our effective tax rates, changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or, failure of our performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.
Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local
21
currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations.
As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.
We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores, clubs and eCommerce platforms around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. Consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations.
Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks
Our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate retail and eCommerce businesses in Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico.
During fiscal 2026, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 19% of our consolidated net sales. Walmart International's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries. Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions; legal and regulatory constraints, such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on eCommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as in India; restrictive governmental actions, such as trade protection measures or nationalization; antitrust and competition law regulatory matters, such as those underway in Canada, Mexico and India (relating to our Flipkart subsidiary); local product safety and environmental laws; tax regulations; local labor laws; anti-money laundering laws and regulations; trade policies; foreign exchange or currency regulations; laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection; and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.
Changing our operations in accordance with new or changed restrictions on international trade or newly imposed sanctions can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice and we may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. In addition, tensions between nation-state governments and conflicts of laws may lead to challenges for our operations. If disputes and conflicts further escalate in the future, actions by governments in response, or consumer boycotts in certain regions, could be significantly more severe and restrictive and could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have a negative effect on consumer confidence and spending, which could also adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they recur, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the U.S. Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, geopolitical tensions or events, laws and regulations.
In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. sanctions laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries. Our global policies designed to regulate such business practices and our global compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations may not be adequate to prevent the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are appropriately regulated by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. Any such violations, even if prohibited by our
22
internal policies, could subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.
Changes in tax and trade laws, regulations and interpretations could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
In fiscal 2026, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. operating segments generated approximately 82% of our consolidated net sales. A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. Significant changes in tax and trade policies, including tariffs, trade barriers, other restrictions on the exportation and importation of goods and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell can impact, and have impacted, our business and profit margins, including through increases in the costs at which we purchase merchandise and the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, and the costs we incur in pursuing our strategic initiatives, including those set forth under the headings Strategic Risks and Operational Risks above in this Item 1A. If we are unable to successfully manage the various impacts that changes in these tax and trade policies have on our business, our results of operations and financial performance could be impacted. We experienced the impacts noted above during fiscal 2026 as a result of incremental import tariffs. We expect the dynamic tariff environment to continue, including in fiscal 2027, and cannot predict with certainty the future impact that this environment will have on our results of operations or financial performance, which could be material.
We are subject to income taxes, other taxes and tax collection and reporting obligations in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. Our taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles and the interpretations of those rules. In addition, we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date of those obligations.
We are also exposed to future tax legislation, as well as the issuance of future regulations and changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws, and changes in transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries, any of which can impact our or our subsidiaries' current and future years' tax provision. The effect of such changes in tax law, changes in administrative interpretations of existing tax laws or changes in transfer pricing arrangements could also have a material effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Tax Act") significantly changed federal income tax laws that affect U.S. corporations. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Compliance with the Tax Act and any other new tax rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations, including collecting information not regularly produced by us or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations.
In addition, legislatures and taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may enact changes to, or seek to enforce novel interpretations of, existing tax laws, including both temporary and permanent measures. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD") and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting taxation of large multinational enterprises. In particular, the OECD's Global Minimum Tax (Pillar Two) has become effective in many jurisdictions where we operate and continues to evolve through ongoing legislative and administrative guidance. These rules are complex, and may require significant data, systems and process changes to comply. The impact of these developments, as well as other changes in domestic and international tax laws and regulations could have a material effect on our cash taxes, affect our effective tax rate and increase our compliance, audit and controversy costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Furthermore, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations, legislation and interpretations. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.
Changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws, regulations and interpretations of such laws and regulations specific to the businesses and jurisdictions in which we operate
could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position or our business and financial performance.
We operate in complex regulated environments in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate and could be materially adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements, including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. In addition, the degree of regulatory, political, and media scrutiny we face increases the likelihood that our efforts to adhere to our practices and procedures to comply with
23
these laws and legal requirements may be subject to frequent or increasing challenges. If we fail to prevent independent contractors or third-party service providers from violating our policies or applicable laws or committing any fraudulent acts against us or our customers, it could harm our business or damage our reputation, and we could face liability for unlawful activities by such third parties.
Our health and wellness operations in the U.S. are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, those related to: licensing; reimbursement arrangements and other requirements and restrictions; registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; governmental (including Medicare and Medicaid) and commercial reimbursement; data privacy and security and the sharing and interoperability of data, including obligations and restrictions related to health information (such as those imposed under HIPAA); protection of consumer health data; billing and coding for healthcare services and properly handling overpayments; debt collection; necessity and adequacy of healthcare services; relationships with referral sources and referral recipients and other fraud and abuse issues, such as those addressed by anti-kickback and false claims laws and patient inducement regulations; qualification of healthcare practitioners; quality and standards of medical services and equipment; and the practice of the professions of pharmacy and optometry.
Health-related legislation at the federal and state level may have an adverse effect on our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. For example, in the U.S., the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various other regulatory authorities regulate the purchase, distribution, maintenance and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state-controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances. The DEA, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. In addition, there has been recent heightened governmental and public scrutiny of pharmaceutical product pricing, which has resulted in federal and state legislation and regulations, executive orders and other initiatives and proposals designed to increase transparency in pharmaceutical product pricing and reform government program reimbursement methodologies (for example, the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes, among other matters, policies designed to impact drug prices and reduce drug spending by the federal government). Other health reform efforts at the federal and state levels may also impact our business or require us to modify certain aspects of our operations. States may enact conflicting laws, mandating changes in operations that negatively impact our ability to execute uniformly and achieve economies of scale across states. We may not be able to predict the nature or success of reform initiatives, and the resulting uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business.
Additionally, through various financial service partners and our OnePay fintech venture, we offer various services such as money transfers, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders, check cashing, prepaid access, co-branded credit cards, limited access to cryptocurrency and equity investment products, installment lending and earned wage access. These products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent fraud and other illicit activity, the sale and custody of equity and cryptocurrency products, privacy, information security, anti-money laundering and sanctions regimes and consumer protection under U.S. state and federal laws and regulations, as well as those of certain other countries. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation. Increased U.S. regulation of non-bank financial institutions may also result in additional requirements and scrutiny of certain financial services we offer.
We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to competition and antitrust matters; protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; food and drug safety, including drug supply chain security requirements; consumer protection, and safety, including the availability, sale, price label accuracy, membership subscription and cancellation; advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer (including through our digital channels, stores and clubs, as well as our OnePay fintech venture); anti-money laundering prohibitions; consumer financial protection laws; economic, trade and other sanctions matters; licensure, including supply chain logistics licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; cross border data transfer; data privacy, cybersecurity, sharing and interoperability of data and use of AI technology; working conditions, workplace health and safety, equal employment opportunity, worker classification, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters; and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy and optometry operations. Failure to meet these requirements could affect the profitability of our business activities; limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or conduct business in certain jurisdictions; require changes to business practices or governance or alter our relationships with our customers, partners and other third parties, including our ability to continue certain relationships in Mexico, India or other international jurisdictions; result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight and compliance, litigation-related settlements, judgments or expenses, restitution to customers or the imposition of fines or monetary penalties.
Governmental and societal attention to social and environmental matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting diligence, and disclosure topics such as climate change, sustainability (including with respect to our supply chain),
24
natural resources, waste reduction, energy, human capital and risk oversight could change the nature, scope and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess and report.
Data privacy and protection laws or customer expectations relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal information continue to undergo a rapid transformation in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. State laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"), in a number of states that have become effective, or will soon be effective, have created a substantially more complex regulatory regime associated with data-handling practices. Moreover, other laws and regulations related to data-handling and privacy that apply to our business, such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the United Kingdom's General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law), China's Personal Information Protection Act ("PIPL"), and similar legislation in Quebec, Canada further increase the compliance obligations of our business. Certain of these laws have required us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply, which we anticipate will continue in the future. These and other privacy and cybersecurity laws may carry significant potential damages and civil penalties for noncompliance. These administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach. Further, PIPL raises the requirements for processing personal information and requires our China business to undergo a cybersecurity assessment and obtain approval from the Cyberspace Administration of China ("CAC") as well as consent from the personal information owner before personal information collected in China may be transferred to, or accessed from, outside of China. We obtained CAC approval in September 2023 and are required to reapply by August 2026. We have made changes, and we may in the future make additional adjustments to our business practices, to comply with the personal information protection laws and regulations in China as they evolve. Residents in jurisdictions with comprehensive privacy laws generally have rights to access, correct and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and selling, receive detailed information about how their personal information is used and may have a private right of action for data breaches. Furthermore, our marketing and customer engagement activities are subject to communications privacy laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We may be subject to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance, including being required to change some portions of our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by customer or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity, impact our reputation and could require a costly response from and defense by us.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny as to existing laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, in the U.S., shifting enforcement priorities for existing antitrust, competition and pricing laws (including new or expanded laws relating to dynamic and algorithmic pricing), use and disposal of plastics, recycled plastics or other packaging materials, social and environmental initiatives, consumer protection and AI technology, as well as proposed new rules and regulations) generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices of existing laws and regulations may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. If we fail to predict or respond adequately to changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our business, operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.
VIZIO Holding Corp. and its subsidiaries (collectively "VIZIO") are subject to a stipulated order with the Federal Trade Commission and the New Jersey Attorney General until 2037 that requires VIZIO to comply with specified obligations related to VIZIO's collection and use of certain consumer data and information collected from a VIZIO internet-connected device. These requirements apply to certain VIZIO entities and all other persons in active concert or participation with them. If we fail to comply with the terms of the order, we may face additional regulatory action, penalties or monetary fines, any of which could have a substantial negative impact on our business, operations and financial performance.
In addition, we may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The regulatory, political and media scrutiny we face, which may continue, amplifies these risks. To the extent a regulator or court disagrees with our interpretation of these laws and determines that our practices are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required licenses and certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.; termination from contractual relationships, including those with our drug suppliers and third-party payers; and significant fines or monetary damages. Failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the U.S. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial position and results of operations.
25
We are subject to risks related to litigation claims, and other legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
We operate globally in a highly regulated and litigious environment. We are or may be involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax, consumer protection, employment, environmental and other governmental authorities as well as private individuals. We may also be involved in legal proceedings brought by regulatory authorities, organizations and individuals relating to products, product claims or product packaging, including that such products or packaging are made of plastic, do not meet required safety standards, contain PFAS or other chemicals, are not appropriately disposed, contain incorrect weight or measurement, or contain misrepresentations about country of origin or assembly, recyclability, compostability, biodegradability or reusability. We may also have indemnification obligations for legal commitments of certain business customers we contract with and businesses we have divested. Legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative actions, class and representative actions and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, we are increasingly named as a defendant in cases that allege novel theories of personal injury or economic loss from consumer products, including multidistrict litigation relating to acetaminophen and baby food. We are a defendant in a number of cases containing class, representative or collective action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal, state and local wage and hour and employment laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state competition and consumer protection laws. We cannot provide any assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and no assurance that our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
We are increasingly named as a defendant in cases that involve allegations relating to the retail prices charged to customers and costs we negotiate with suppliers. These cases include purported class actions under federal and state antitrust and competition, consumer protection and related laws brought by customers, retailers and others, including cases related to our wholesale purchase and retail sale of batteries and soft drinks. We cannot provide any assurance as to the scope and outcome of these matters and no assurance that our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
Claims for insurance-related liabilities, such as workers' compensation, general liability, auto liability, product liability and certain employee-related healthcare benefits, are funded predominantly through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to limit exposures arising from significant losses. The types and amounts of insurance may vary from time to time based on our risk-management strategy, risk tolerance, regulatory requirements, market conditions and other factors. Significant claims or events, regulatory changes, a substantial rise in costs of health care or costs to maintain our insurance or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain specific coverages for catastrophic property losses, we still bear a significant portion of the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption. Such losses could materially impact our cash flows and results of operations.
For specific details and information on certain claims and litigation matters to which we are party and that could impact our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, see the disclosures set forth below under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
" and in
Note 9
in the "Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements," which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could increase the costs for our shareholders to bring claims, discourage our shareholders from bringing claims, or
limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, associates or shareholders in such capacity.
Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Delaware Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for certain shareholder claims, including derivative claims alleging a violation of duty by a current or former director, officer, associate or shareholder, unless we agree otherwise in writing. This exclusive forum provision may increase the cost for shareholders to bring claims or limit their ability to choose a favorable forum, potentially discouraging lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court finds this provision unenforceable, we may face higher costs resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. However, this provision does not affect the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction of federal courts over actions brought under the federal securities laws, including the Exchange Act, as amended, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
26
Not satisfying stakeholder expectations with respect to our social and environmental efforts could adversely affect our reputation or subject us to regulatory or litigation risk.
We strive to deliver shared value through our business, although stakeholder expectations continue to evolve and are not uniform, and our diverse stakeholders expect us to make significant progress in certain areas. We have established, and may continue to establish, various goals and initiatives on certain matters, including with respect to climate change, waste, packaging, plastic usage and other topics. We periodically publish information about our shared value priorities, strategies, progress and challenges through our online social and environmental reporting, which is not incorporated by reference into and does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Achievement of these aspirations and goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve our goals or that our initiatives will achieve their desired results. Consequently, it is possible that we may fail, or be perceived to have failed, in the achievement of our social and environmental goals and certain customers, associates, shareholders, investors, suppliers, business partners, government agencies and non-governmental organizations might not be satisfied with our progress. Furthermore, federal, state and local regulatory authorities, private organizations and individuals may challenge our approach to social and environmental issues, including allegations that we failed in our efforts, should not have undertaken such efforts or that we improperly engaged with other entities in our approach to social and environmental issues. These challenges could involve administrative proceedings or litigation, including as class or mass actions. A failure or perceived failure to meet our goals or to otherwise meet evolving and diverse stakeholder expectations could adversely affect public perception of our business, associate morale or customer or shareholder support.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 1C.
CYBERSECURITY
Walmart seeks to build and maintain the trust of customers, associates, shareholders and other stakeholders with respect to our use of technology and data. Our digital trust commitments, in line with our Company's values of service, excellence, integrity and respect for the individual, provide a foundation for our approach to cybersecurity.
The Board of Directors, committees of the Board of Directors and management coordinate risk oversight and management responsibilities, and cybersecurity represents an important component of our overall approach to enterprise risk management.
In general, we seek to address cybersecurity risks through a cross-functional approach
focused on protecting business operations and preserving the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information by identifying, preventing and mitigating cybersecurity threats and effectively responding to cybersecurity incidents when they occur.
Board of Directors' oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats
Our Board of Directors, which has primary responsibility for overseeing risk management,
has delegated risk management oversight responsibility for information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity to the Audit Committee.
Several of our Board members, including certain members of our Audit Committee, have backgrounds or professional experience in risk management, digital platforms, information technology or cybersecurity.
The Audit Committee receives periodic updates from our Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO"), Chief Technology Officer ("CTO") and other members of management on risks related to information systems, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity. Specific topics may include updates to our company's approach to cybersecurity risk management; recent developments; key initiatives; the threat landscape; trends; and the results of certain assessments and testing. The
Board
of Directors receives regular reports from the Audit Committee chair on these and other risk-related matters as deemed necessary. Our CISO or other members of management provide information to the Audit Committee pursuant to risk-based escalation protocols for cybersecurity incidents that exceed established reporting thresholds.
Management's role in assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats
Our
CISO
leads Walmart's Information Security organization and has responsibility for overseeing our Company's cybersecurity program.
To operationalize our program, we deploy multidisciplinary teams, including cybersecurity personnel and professionals, to address cybersecurity threats and respond to cybersecurity incidents, including for those recently acquired and non-wholly owned subsidiaries whose systems have not been fully integrated into Walmart's networks.
Through ongoing engagement with these teams and certain third-party service providers, our CISO monitors the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents. Cybersecurity incidents that reach established thresholds are reported to senior management and the Audit Committee and are analyzed for external reporting requirements.
Our CISO has been a Walmart associate for over 30 years, has served in various roles in information technology and information security at Walmart for more than 20 years, and has received industry-recognized information security certifications. Our CTO, to whom the CISO reports, has served as Walmart's CTO since 2019 and prior to that had experience managing technology and other risks at several other large public companies.
27
Risk Management and Strategy
Our cybersecurity program is informed by various industry frameworks including the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST-CSF), which are reflected in our related policies, standards, processes and practices. We may implement changes to our cybersecurity program when deemed appropriate based on updates to laws or industry standards among other things. We have multiple layers of security designed to detect and prevent cybersecurity events, as well as dedicated teams of cybersecurity personnel and professionals, which assist our CISO in helping to assess, identify, monitor, detect and manage cybersecurity risks, threats, vulnerabilities and incidents. We collaborate with public and private entities and industry groups and engage third-party service providers to expand the capabilities and capacity of our cybersecurity program when deemed appropriate. Certain key components of our cybersecurity program include the following:
Protecting our technology and information systems:
When we implement significant changes to our technologies or information systems, we conduct risk-based security and privacy impact assessments and deploy technical safeguards that are designed to reasonably protect our technology and information systems from cybersecurity threats. We actively monitor and proactively research potential cybersecurity threats to our technologies and information systems. We use what we learn to evolve our security controls over time to mitigate risks posed by such threats.
Incident response and recovery planning:
We maintain incident response and recovery plans that address our response to cybersecurity incidents, including incidents that we become aware of at third parties that support our operations. These plans guide how we evaluate and assign incident severity levels and reporting thresholds; escalate and engage incident response teams; and manage and mitigate the related risks.
Third-party risk management:
We maintain a risk-based approach to identifying and managing cybersecurity threats presented to Walmart by third-party systems that support our operations, as well as third-party users of our data and systems, including vendors, service providers and subcontractors.
Training and awareness:
We provide recurring information security training (which includes cybersecurity training) to our associates and certain third parties based on access, risk, roles, policies, standards and behaviors.
Assessments and testing:
We engage in periodic assessment and testing of our policies, standards, processes and practices that are designed to address cybersecurity threats. These efforts include tabletop exercises, threat modeling, vulnerability testing and other exercises focused on evaluating the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures and planning.
We regularly engage assessors, consultants, auditors or other third parties to assist with our assessments and testing.
Where appropriate we adjust our cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices accordingly based on internal and external assessment and testing results.
Certain of Walmart's systems and those of our third-party service providers have experienced cybersecurity incidents and threats.
Based on the information available as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any cybersecurity incidents, which have materially affected us or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition.
Despite our security measures, however, there can be no assurance that we, or the third parties with which we interact, will not experience a cybersecurity incident in the future that will materially affect us. Additional information about cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
," which should be read in conjunction with the information above.
28
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
As of January 31, 2026
(1)
, information on our retail units for Walmart U.S., Sam's Club U.S. and Walmart International is summarized as follows:
Total Retail
Unit Count
Square Feet
Total
(2)
Minimum
Maximum
Average
Walmart U.S.
Supercenters
3,566
633,724
...
28,000
65,000
42,000
Walmart U.S. Total
4,611
698,708
Sam's Club U.S.
601
80,502
94,000
...
U.S. Total
5,212
779,210
Walmart International
(4)
Retail
5,398
236,214
1,400
...
25,000
202,000
86,000
Walmart International Total
5,743
277,619
Total Company
10,955
1,056,829
(1)
Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2025, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2026.
(2)
Total square feet reported in thousands.
(3)
Square feet for other small formats is excluded from the presentation of the minimum, maximum and average for Walmart U.S.
(4)
Total square feet represents gross square feet, while the minimum, maximum and average square feet amounts represent retail unit selling area.
Owned and Leased Properties
The following table provides further details of our retail units and distribution facilities, including eCommerce fulfillment centers and return facilities, as of January 31, 2026
(1)
:
Owned
Leased
(2)
Total
Retail Units
Walmart U.S. retail units
3,728
883
4,611
Sam's Club U.S. retail units
464
137
601
Walmart International retail units
1,486
4,257
5,743
Total retail units
5,678
5,277
10,955
Distribution Facilities
U.S. distribution facilities
(3)
125
67
192
International distribution facilities
24
155
179
Total distribution facilities
149
222
371
(1)
Walmart International properties, with the exception of Canada, are as of December 31, 2025, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. Canada unit counts are as of January 31, 2026.
(2)
Includes distribution facilities which are third-party owned and operated.
(3)
U.S. distribution facilities are utilized by both the Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. segments.
We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas, that serve as our principal office and own and lease office facilities throughout the U.S. and internationally for operations as well as for field and market management. The land on which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company. Owned retail units on leased land are reflected as leased locations in the table above. We use independent contractors to construct our buildings. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company's store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include rent escalation clauses. For further information on our distribution network, see the caption "Distribution" under "
Item 1. Business
."
29
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
I. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
The Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of its business, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, subpoenas, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities.
We discuss certain legal proceedings in
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," which is captioned "Contingencies," under the sub-caption "Legal Proceedings." We refer you to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit or appeal was filed, in addition to disclosure of certain other legal matters.
Opioid-Related Litigation:
In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804)
(the "MDL") is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and includes approximately 230 cases with claims against the Company as of March 6, 2026. In addition, the following 13 other opioid-related cases against the Company and its subsidiaries were pending in U.S. state and federal courts and Canadian courts as of March 6, 2026: Baby Doe 1, et al. v. Allergan Finances, LLC, et al., U.S. Dist. Ct., E.D. Tenn., 4/29/25; Marshall Cty. Bd. of Educ., et al. v. Cephalon, Inc., et al., U.S. Dist. Ct., N.D. W. Va., 10/28/24; Reiner v. CVS Pharm., Inc., et al., Nev. 5th Jud. Dist. Ct., Nye Cty., 2/26/24; Chaney v. CVS Pharm., Inc., et al., Ky. Cir. Ct., Perry Cty., 12/11/23; City of Grande Prairie, et al. v. Apotex Inc., et al., Alta. King's Bench Ct., Calgary Jud. Ctr., 4/27/23; Lac La Ronge Indian Band, et al. v. Apotex Inc., et al., Sask. King's Bench Ct., Prince Albert Jud. Ctr., 3/17/23; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ex rel. Allegheny Cty. Dist. Att'y Stephen A. Zappala, Jr. v. CVS Ind., LLC, et al., Pa. Ct. Com. Pl., Delaware Cty., 8/8/22; Baby Doe, et al., ex rel. Their Guardian Ad Litem v. Endo Health Sols., Inc., et al., U.S. Dist. Ct., M.D. Tenn., 8/3/22; Paynter ex rel. Minor Child(ren) Z.N.B. v. McKesson Corp., et al., W. Va. Cir. Ct., Kanawha Cty., 3/28/22; Blankenship ex rel. Minor Child Z.D.B. v. McKesson Corp., et al., W. Va. Cir. Ct., Kanawha Cty., 1/14/22; Miss. Baptist Med. Ctr. Inc., et al. v. Amneal Pharm., LLC, et al., Miss. 1st Jud. Dist., Hinds Cty. Cir. Ct., 5/15/20; Dallas Cty. Hosp. Dist. d/b/a Parkland Health & Hosp. Sys., et al., v. Amneal Pharm., LLC, et al., Tex. Dist. Ct., 152nd Jud. Dist., Harris Cty., 11/20/19; Fla. Health Scis. Ctr., Inc., et al. v. Sackler, et al., Fla. Cir. Ct., 17th Jud. Cir., Broward Cty., 9/16/19.
DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation:
United States of America v. Walmart Inc., et al.,
USDC, Dist. of DE, 12/22/20.
Settlement of Certain Opioid-Related Matters:
As described in more detail in
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company accrued a liability of approximately $3.3 billion in fiscal year 2023 for certain opioid-related settlements. As of January 31, 2025, all of the accrued liability has been paid.
False Claims Act Litigation:
United States of America
ex rel.
James Marcilla and Isela Chavez
, USDC, Dist. of N.M., 8/23/19, transferred to USDC Dist. of DE 7/25/24.
ASDA Equal Value Claims:
Ms S Brierley & Others v. ASDA Stores Ltd
(2406372/2008 &
Others
...
Federal Trade Commission, et al. v. Walmart Inc.
, USDC, N.D. Cal., 2/26/26
.
Mexico Antitrust Matter:
Comisión Federal de Competencia Económica of México, Investigative Authority v. Nueva Wal-Mart de México, S.de R.L. de C.V. (Docket IO-002-2020, consolidated with Docket DE-026-2020), Mexico, 10/6/23.
India Antitrust Matter:
Competition Commission of India, Case No. 40 of 2019, order initiating investigation 1/13/20.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters when a governmental authority is a party to the proceedings and such proceedings involve potential monetary sanctions that the Company reasonably believes will exceed $1 million.
In October 2023, the Company received a Finding of Violation from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") alleging violations of the Clean Air Act in connection with the Company's refrigeration leak detection and repair program at certain of its facilities. The Company is cooperating with the EPA in its investigation. The EPA may seek to impose monetary and non-monetary penalties for the alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. The Company is unable to predict the final outcome of this matter, but the EPA could seek penalties in excess of $1 million. Although the Company does not believe this matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, the Company can provide no assurance that its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows will not be materially adversely affected.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
...
Holders of Record of Common Stock
As of March 11, 2026, there were 185,190 holders of record of Walmart's common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners.
Stock Performance Chart
This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart's common stock during the five fiscal years ended through fiscal 2026 to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index and the S&P 500 Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2021 in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes all dividends were reinvested.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2021
2022
...
136.72
172.78
201.03
S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Distribution & Retailing Index
100.00
108.64
88.85
...
161.20
164.12
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. All repurchases during fiscal 2026 were made under the $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, of which authorization for $4.0 billion of share repurchases remained as of January 31, 2026. In February 2026, the Board of Directors approved a new $30.0 billion share repurchase authorization, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases, and beginning February 23, 2026, replaced the remaining capacity under the prior authorization.
31
Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase programs, on a trade date basis, for each month in the quarter ended January 31, 2026, was as follows:
Fiscal Period
Total Number of
Shares Repurchased
Average Price Paid
per Share
(in dollars)
Total Number of
...
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
This discussion, which presents our results for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2026 ("fiscal 2026"), January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025") and January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"), should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from period to period and the primary factors that accounted for those changes. We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess the Company's performance. Additionally, the discussion provides information about the financial results of each of the three segments of our business to provide a better understanding of how each of those segments and its results of operations affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole.
Throughout this Item 7, we discuss segment operating income, comparable store and club sales and other measures. Management measures the results of the Company's segments using each segment's operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations, as well as other measures. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income and other measures as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.
In discussing our operating results, the term currency exchange rates refers to the currency exchange rates we use to convert the operating results for countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Additionally, no currency exchange rate fluctuations are calculated for non-USD acquisitions until owned for 12 months. Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Recent Developments, Macroeconomic Conditions and Potential Impacts
We expect continued uncertainty in our business and the global economy due to the following factors: tariffs and trade restrictions; inflationary trends; fluctuations in global currencies; swings in macroeconomic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence; changes in employment trends; volatility in fuel prices; and supply chain pressures, any of which may impact our results. While we operate in a highly dynamic tariff environment, less than one third of what we sell in the U.S. is imported, with most of our imports coming from China, Mexico, Vietnam, India and Canada. Information on certain risks, factors, and uncertainties that can affect our operating results and an investment in our securities can be found herein under "
Item 1A. Risk Factors
."
Our net sales and gross profit margin are influenced in part by our pricing and merchandising strategies in response to cost increases. Those pricing strategies include, but are not limited to: absorbing cost increases instead of passing those cost increases on to our customers and members; reducing prices in certain merchandise categories; focusing on opening price points for certain food categories; and when necessary, passing cost increases on to our customers and members. Merchandising strategies include, but are not limited to: working with our suppliers to reduce product costs and share in absorbing cost increases; focusing on private label brands and smaller pack sizes; earlier-than-usual purchasing and in greater volumes or moderating purchasing in certain categories; and securing ocean carrier and container capacity. These strategies have and may continue to impact gross profit as a percentage of net sales.
In July 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (the "OBBB Act") was enacted, introducing a series of corporate tax changes in the U.S., including 100% bonus depreciation on qualified property and full expensing for research and development expenditures. The impacts of the OBBB Act were not material to our income tax expense or effective tax rate. Certain provisions decreased cash taxes paid in fiscal 2026 and may change the timing of cash tax payments in future periods.
For a detailed discussion on results of operations by reportable segment, refer to "
Results of Operations
" below.
Company Performance Metrics
We are committed to helping customers save money and live better through everyday low prices, supported by everyday low costs. At times, we adjust our business strategies to maintain and strengthen our competitive positions in the countries in which we operate. We define our financial priorities as follows:
•
Growth - serve customers through a seamless omnichannel experience;
•
Margin - improve our operating income margin through productivity initiatives as well as category and business mix; and
•
Returns - improve our Return on Investment through margin improvement and disciplined capital spend.
33
Growth
Our objective of prioritizing growth means we will focus on serving customers and members however they want to shop through our omnichannel business model. This includes increasing comparable store and club sales through increasing membership at Sam's Club U.S. and through Walmart+, accelerating eCommerce sales growth and expansion of omnichannel initiatives that complement our strategy.
Comparable sales is a metric that indicates the performance of our existing stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs, including eCommerce sales, for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous year. Walmart's definition of comparable sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations, expansions and conversions, as well as eCommerce sales. We measure the eCommerce sales impact by including all sales initiated digitally, including omnichannel transactions which are fulfilled through our stores and clubs as well as certain other business offerings that are part of our ecosystem, such as our advertising net sales. Comparable sales are also referred to as "same-store" sales by others within the retail industry. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparable sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Our discussion of our comparable sales below refers to our calendar comparable sales calculated using our fiscal calendar, which may result in differences when compared to comparable sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar) as provided in our quarterly earnings releases. We report on comparable sales in the U.S. as we believe it is a meaningful metric within the context of the U.S. retail market where there is a single currency, one inflationary market and generally consistent store and club formats from year to year.
Calendar comparable sales, as well as the impact of fuel, for fiscal 2026 and 2025, were as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
2026
2025
2026
2025
With Fuel
Fuel Impact
Walmart U.S.
4.3%
4.8%
0.0%
(0.1)%
Sam's Club U.S.
2.9%
4.7%
(1.9)%
(1.5)%
Walmart U.S. comparable sales increased 4.3% and 4.8% in fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2026 were driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, and also reflected growth in unit volumes and strength in all merchandise categories. Comparable sales in fiscal 2025 were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 4.3% and 2.9% to comparable sales for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. This growth reflects continued strength in customer and Walmart+ member engagement with omnichannel offerings, and was primarily driven by store-fulfilled pickup and delivery.
Sam's Club U.S. comparable sales increased 2.9% and 4.7% in fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. For fiscal 2026, comparable sales were driven by growth in unit volumes and transactions, reflecting strong sales in grocery, health and wellness and general merchandise. For fiscal 2025, comparable sales were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Additionally, fiscal 2026 and 2025 growth was partially offset by lower fuel sales, negatively impacting comparable sales by 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively, primarily due to lower fuel prices. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 3.3% and 2.3% to comparable sales for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, which reflects continued strength in member engagement with omnichannel offerings.
34
Margin
Our objective of prioritizing margin focuses on growth with a focus on incremental margin accretion through a combination of productivity improvements as well as category and business mix. We invest in technology and process improvements to increase productivity, manage inventory and reduce costs and we operate with discipline by managing expenses and optimizing the efficiency of how we work. We measure operating discipline through expense leverage, which we define as net sales growing at a faster rate than operating, selling, general and administrative ("operating") expenses. Additionally, we focus on our mix of businesses, including expanding our ecosystem in higher margin areas, such as digital advertising. Our objective is to achieve operating income leverage, which we define as growing operating income at a faster rate than net sales.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except unit counts)
2026
2025
Net sales
$
706,413
$
...
%
5.0
%
Gross profit
(1)
as a percentage of net sales
24.2
%
24.1
%
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales
20.9
%
20.7
%
Operating income
$
29,825
$
29,348
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
4.2
%
4.4
%
(1)
Gross profit defined as net sales less cost of sales.
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate") increased 8 and 40 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase in fiscal 2026 was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to disciplined inventory management, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally. The increase in fiscal 2025 was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally. In both years, the increases were partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories across segments, as well as ongoing channel and format mix shifts in the Walmart International segment.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 20 and 36 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to higher self-insured general liability claims expense in the U.S. of approximately $0.9 billion, influenced by rising costs to resolve claims across retail and related industries, a charge of $0.7 billion related to modification of certain share-based compensation arrangements for our PhonePe subsidiary and increased depreciation related to our capital investments. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance, increased marketing and higher depreciation expenses.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased 13 basis points for fiscal 2026 and increased 15 basis points for fiscal 2025, respectively, primarily due to the factors described above and strong growth in membership income globally.
Returns
As we execute our financial framework, we believe our return on capital will improve over time. We measure return on capital with our return on investment and free cash flow metrics. In addition, we provide returns in the form of share repurchases and dividends, which are discussed in the
Liquidity and Capital Resources
section.
Return on Assets and Return on Investment
We include Return on Assets ("ROA") and Return on Investment ("ROI") as metrics to assess our return on capital. ROA is the most directly comparable measure based on our financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP") while ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes ROI is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term strategic initiatives with possible short-term impacts.
Our calculation of ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure because it uses financial measures that differ from those used in ROA, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. ROA is consolidated net income for the period divided by average total assets for the period. We define ROI as operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense for the trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during the period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets, plus average accumulated depreciation and amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period. Although ROI is a standard financial measure, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our ROI may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI.
35
The calculation of ROA and ROI, along with a reconciliation of ROI to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
2025
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
22,270
$
...
%
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Numerator
Operating income
$
29,825
$
...
+ Rent
2,434
2,347
= ROI operating income
$
46,830
$
...
2026
2025
2024
Certain Balance Sheet Data
Total assets
$
284,668
...
31,187
29,345
28,759
ROA was 8.2% and 7.9% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. The increase in ROA was primarily due to an increase in net income as a result of net increases in the fair value of our equity and other investments combined with higher operating income, offset by an increase in average total assets due to higher purchases of property and equipment.
ROI was 15.1% and 15.5% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. The decrease in ROI was primarily due to an increase in average invested capital due to higher purchases of property and equipment. ROI benefited from increased operating income due to improved business performance, which was partially offset by the incremental non-cash share-based compensation charge at PhonePe as well as certain legal matters and other business restructuring charges.
Capital Allocation
Our strategy includes allocating the majority of our capital to higher-return areas focused on automation such as eCommerce, supply chain and store and club investments. The following table provides additional detail regarding our capital expenditures:
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
Allocation of Capital Expenditures
2026
2025
Supply chain, customer-facing initiatives, technology and other
$
16,468
$
...
23,445
$
20,605
Walmart International
3,197
3,178
Total Capital Expenditures
$
26,642
$
23,783
36
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, consolidated net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. See
Liquidity and Capital Resources
for discussions of GAAP metrics including net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. Walmart's definition of free cash flow is limited in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by management to calculate our free cash flow may differ from the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2026
...
36,443
$
35,726
Payments for property and equipment
(26,642)
(23,783)
(20,606)
Free cash flow
$
14,923
$
...
(14,822)
(13,414)
(1)
"Net cash used in investing activities" includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash flow.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2026 is primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income, lower cash tax payments and the timing of certain payments. Free cash flow for fiscal 2026 increased when compared to fiscal 2025 due to an increase in cash provided by operating income, lower cash tax payments and timing of certain payments, partially offset by an increase of $2.9 billion in capital expenditures to support our omnichannel growth strategy. Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2025 increased when compared to fiscal 2024 primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income and lapping the payment of accrued opioid legal charges in the prior year, partially offset by increased inventory purchases. Free cash flow for fiscal 2025 decreased when compared to fiscal 2024 due to an increase of $3.2 billion in capital expenditures to support our omnichannel growth strategy, partially offset by the increase in net cash provided by operating activities described above.
37
Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2026
2025
2024
Net sales
$
706,413
$
...
%
6.1
%
Membership and other income
(1)
6,750
6,447
5,488
Total revenues
713,163
680,985
648,125
...
%
6.0
%
Gross profit
(2)
171,018
162,785
152,495
Operating expenses
(2)
147,943
139,884
130,971
Operating income
29,825
29,348
27,012
Other (gains) and losses
(2,075)
794
3,027
Consolidated net income
$
22,270
$
20,157
$
16,270
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
24.2
%
24.1
%
23.7
%
Operating expenses
20.9
%
20.7
%
20.4
%
Operating income
4.2
%
4.4
%
4.2
%
Retail unit counts at period end
10,955
10,771
10,616
Retail square feet at period end
1,057
1,053
1,053
(1)
Membership and other income includes membership fees and other items such as rental and tenant income, recycling income, gift card breakage income, as well as other income from corporate campus facilities.
(2)
Gross profit is defined as net sales less cost of sales. Operating expenses refers to operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Our total revenues increased $32.2 billion or 4.7% and $32.9 billion or 5.1% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. These increases in revenues were primarily due to increases in net sales, which increased $31.9 billion or 4.7% and $31.9 billion or 5.0% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases were primarily due to strong positive comparable sales across our U.S. segments and international markets. In fiscal 2026, growth was primarily driven by increases in average ticket and transactions, and also reflected growth in unit volumes, while fiscal 2025 growth was primarily driven by higher transactions and unit volumes. Both years include strength in eCommerce as well as strong sales in grocery and health and wellness, with fiscal 2026 also benefiting from improved sales in general merchandise. Net sales were negatively impacted by $2.8 billion and $3.2 billion of fluctuations in currency exchange rates during fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively.
Membership and other income increased $0.3 billion and $1.0 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, primarily driven by growth in membership fee revenue globally, partially offset by decreases in certain other income items, including a reduction in recycling income in fiscal 2026.
Our gross profit rate increased 8 and 40 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase in fiscal 2026 was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to disciplined inventory management, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally. The increase in fiscal 2025 was primarily driven by the Walmart U.S. segment, due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps, as well as growth in higher margin businesses globally. In both years, the increases were partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories across segments, as well as ongoing channel and format mix shifts in the Walmart International segment.
Our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 20 and 36 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to higher self-insured general liability claims expense in the U.S. of approximately $0.9 billion, influenced by rising costs to resolve claims across retail and related industries, a charge of $0.7 billion related to modification of certain share-based compensation arrangements for our PhonePe subsidiary and increased depreciation related to our capital investments. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance, increased marketing and higher depreciation expenses.
Other gains and losses consist of certain non-operating items, such as changes in the fair value of our investments, which by their nature can fluctuate from period to period. Other gains and losses resulted in a net gain of $2.1 billion and a net loss of $0.8 billion in fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, primarily driven by changes in the fair value of our equity and other investments due to fluctuations in their underlying stock prices.
38
Our effective income tax rate was 24.4%, 23.4%, and 25.5% for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in effective income tax rate in fiscal 2026 compared to fiscal 2025 is primarily due to the share-based compensation charge recorded at the Company's PhonePe subsidiary, which provided no tax benefit. The decrease in effective tax rate in fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024 is primarily due to the tax impact on changes in fair value of our investments. Our effective income tax rate may also fluctuate as a result of various factors, including changes in our assessment of unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances, business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, changes in tax law, changes in the administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, and the mix and size of earnings among our U.S. operations and international operations, which are subject to statutory rates that are generally higher than the U.S. statutory rate. The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024 is provided in
Note 8
.
As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $22.3 billion and $20.2 billion of consolidated net income for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, which represent increases of $2.1 billion and $3.9 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart ("EPS") was $2.73, $2.41 and $1.91 for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2026
2025
2024
Net sales
$
482,975
$
462,415
$
441,817
Net sales percentage change from comparable period
4.4
%
4.7
%
5.1
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
4.3
%
4.8
%
5.5
%
Membership and other income
2,624
2,594
1,985
Gross profit
132,615
125,964
118,254
Operating expenses
110,081
104,676
98,085
Operating income
$
25,158
$
23,882
$
22,154
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
27.5
%
27.2
%
26.8
%
Operating expenses
22.8
%
22.6
%
22.2
%
Operating income
5.2
%
5.2
%
5.0
%
Retail unit counts at period end
4,611
4,605
4,615
Retail square feet at period end
699
698
699
Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased $20.6 billion or 4.4% and $20.6 billion or 4.7% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales of 4.3% and 4.8% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2026 were driven by growth in average ticket and transactions, and also reflected growth in unit volumes and strength in all merchandise categories. Comparable sales in fiscal 2025 were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately 4.3% and 2.9% to comparable sales for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. This growth reflects continued strength in customer and Walmart+ member engagement with omnichannel offerings, and was primarily driven by store-fulfilled pickup and delivery.
Membership and other income increased slightly for fiscal 2026 and increased $0.6 billion for fiscal 2025. In both years, the increases were primarily driven by double-digit growth in membership fee revenue from Walmart+. For fiscal 2026, the increase was partially offset by decreases in certain other income items, including a reduction in recycling income. Fiscal 2025 also benefited from higher recycling income compared to the previous fiscal year.
Gross profit rate increased 22 and 47 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily driven by disciplined inventory management and growth in higher margin businesses, partially offset by mix shifts into lower margin merchandise categories. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to managing prices aligned to our competitive historic price gaps and growth in higher margin businesses, partially offset by product mix shifts into lower margin categories.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 15 and 44 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to higher self-insured general liability claims expense and increased depreciation related to our capital investments. For fiscal 2025, the increase was primarily due to increased marketing expenses, higher variable pay as a result of exceeding planned performance and increased depreciation expenses.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
39
Walmart International Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2026
2025
2024
Net sales
$
130,423
$
...
%
13.5
%
Membership and other income
1,565
1,478
1,408
Gross profit
27,847
26,618
24,810
Operating expenses
24,309
22,595
21,309
Operating income
$
5,103
$
5,501
$
4,909
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
21.4
%
21.8
%
21.6
%
Operating expenses
18.6
%
18.5
%
18.6
%
Operating income
3.9
%
4.5
%
4.3
%
Retail unit counts at period end
5,743
5,566
5,402
Retail square feet at period end
278
274
274
Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased $8.5 billion or 7.0% and $7.2 billion or 6.3% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. Net sales growth was primarily due to positive comparable sales growth across our international markets, which includes strong eCommerce growth of $6.3 billion and $4.7 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. The increases were partially offset by negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $2.8 billion and $3.2 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively.
Gross profit rate decreased 49 basis points for fiscal 2026 and increased 20 basis points for fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2026, the decrease was primarily due to ongoing channel and format mix shifts, as well as strategic growth investments in price and delivery capabilities, partially offset by growth in higher margin businesses. The increase in fiscal 2025 was primarily due to improved eCommerce margin and business mix changes, partially offset by ongoing channel and format mix changes.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 10 basis points for fiscal 2026 and decreased 5 basis points for fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to a charge of $0.7 billion related to PhonePe's modification of certain share-based payment arrangements in contemplation of a potential public offering (refer to
Note 3
), partially offset by strong sales as well as format mix shifts. The decrease for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to increased sales driving expense leverage, partially offset by planned investments in associate wages and strategic priorities in Mexico and Central America.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income decreased $0.4 billion and increased $0.6 billion for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
40
Sam's Club U.S. Segment
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Dollar amounts and retail square feet in millions)
2026
2025
2024
Including Fuel
Net sales
$
93,015
$
...
%
2.2
%
Calendar comparable sales increase
2.9
%
4.7
%
2.3
%
Membership and other income
2,525
2,323
2,051
Gross profit
10,556
10,203
9,431
Operating expenses
10,639
10,122
9,290
Operating income
$
2,442
$
2,404
$
2,192
Percentage of net sales
Gross profit
11.3
%
11.3
%
10.9
%
Operating expenses
11.4
%
11.2
%
10.8
%
Operating income
2.6
%
2.7
%
2.5
%
Retail unit counts at period end
601
600
599
Retail square feet at period end
81
80
80
Excluding Fuel
(1)
Net sales
$
83,744
$
...
%
4.7
%
Operating income
$
1,822
$
1,785
$
1,659
Operating income as a percentage of net sales
2.2
%
2.2
...
2.2
%
(1)
We believe the "Excluding Fuel" information is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam's Club U.S. segment's fuel sales on its results of operations, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices. Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the operating results of the Sam's Club U.S. segment in the future.
Net sales for the Sam's Club U.S. segment increased $2.8 billion or 3.1% and $4.1 billion or 4.7% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increases in net sales were primarily due to increases in comparable sales, including fuel, of 2.9% and 4.7% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively. Comparable sales in fiscal 2026 were driven by growth in unit volumes and transactions, reflecting strong sales in grocery, health and wellness and general merchandise. Comparable sales in fiscal 2025 were driven by growth in transactions and unit volumes, with strong sales in grocery and health and wellness. Additionally, fiscal 2026 and 2025 growth was partially offset by lower fuel sales, negatively impacting comparable sales by 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively, primarily due to lower fuel prices. Sam's Club U.S. eCommerce sales positively contributed approximately
3.3%
and
2.3% to comparable sales for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, which reflects continued strength in member engagement with omnichannel offerings.
Membership and other income increased 8.7% and 13.3% for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. For fiscal 2026 and 2025, the increases were primarily due to growth in the membership base and Plus penetration. Fiscal 2026 was also positively impacted by additional breakage income related to unredeemed Sam's Cash rewards, while fiscal 2025 was positively impacted by the expiration of a promotional offering offsetting membership fee increases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.
Gross profit rate increased 4 and 37 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to operational efficiencies and higher margins in fuel, partially offset by higher eCommerce fulfillment costs and the impact of reorganization charges related to strategic supply chain decisions. The increase for fiscal
2025
was primarily due to improved operational efficiencies related to merchandise flow and increased margins in fuel, partially offset by higher eCommerce fulfillment costs and product mix shifts into lower margin categories.
Operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales increased 22 and 44 basis points for fiscal 2026 and 2025, respectively, when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase for fiscal 2026 was primarily due to lower fuel sales and higher self-insured general liability claims expense. The increase for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to increased compensation related expenses, including associate wage investments and higher variable pay as a result of exceeding our planned performance, as well as elevated technology spend.
As a result of the factors discussed above, segment operating income increased slightly for fiscal 2026 and increased $0.2 billion for fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year.
41
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
The strength and stability of our operations have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. Our cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our long-term debt and short-term borrowings, have been sufficient to fund our operations while allowing us to invest in activities that support the long-term growth of our operations. Generally, some or all of the remaining available cash flow has been used to fund dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. We believe our sources of liquidity will continue to be sufficient to fund operations, finance our investment activities, pay dividends and fund our share repurchases for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
36,443
$
35,726
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $5.1 billion for fiscal 2026 when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income, lower cash tax payments and timing of certain payments. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year, was primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating income and lapping the payment of accrued opioid legal charges in the prior year, partially offset by increased inventory purchases.
Cash Equivalents and Working Capital Deficit
Cash and cash equivalents were $10.7 billion and $9.0 billion as of January 31, 2026 and 2025, respectively. Our working capital deficit, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $22.6 billion and $17.1 billion as of January 31, 2026 and 2025, respectively. The increase in our working capital deficit was primarily driven by timing of certain payments combined with an increase in short-term borrowings for general corporate purposes, partially offset by increased inventories and receivables related to higher sales growth as well as higher cash balances. We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations, consistent access to the capital markets and returns provided to our shareholders in the form of payments of cash dividends and share repurchases.
We use intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible. Additionally, from time-to-time, we repatriate earnings and related cash from jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Under current law, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax, but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. We do not expect current local laws, or other existing limitations on anticipated future repatriations of cash amounts held outside the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial position or results of operations.
As of January 31, 2026 and 2025, cash and cash equivalents of $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
...
(21,379)
$
(21,287)
Net cash used in investing activities generally consisted of capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities increased $5.0 billion for fiscal 2026 when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase is primarily due to the change in net proceeds received from the sale of certain strategic investments as well as increased payments for property and equipment, partially offset by the acquisition of VIZIO for net consideration of $1.9 billion in the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities increased $0.1 billion for fiscal 2025, when compared to the previous fiscal year, primarily due to increased payments for property and equipment as well as the acquisition of VIZIO for net consideration of $1.9 billion, partially offset by net proceeds received from sales of certain strategic investments, including $3.6 billion related to the sale of our JD.com investment.
Capital expenditures
Refer to the "
Capital Allocation
" section in our
Company Performance Metrics
for capital expenditure detail for fiscal 2026 and 2025. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2027 ("fiscal 2027"), we project capital expenditures will be approximately $25 billion to $27 billion, with a focus on technology, supply chain and customer-facing initiatives.
42
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
(14,822)
$
(13,414)
Net cash used in financing activities generally consisted of debt transactions, dividends paid, repurchases of Company stock and transactions with noncontrolling interest shareholders. Fiscal 2026 net cash used in financing activities decreased $1.3 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The decrease is primarily due to proceeds from new long-term debt issued, higher short-term borrowings in the current fiscal year and lower debt repayments, partially offset by increased share repurchases and higher dividends paid. Fiscal 2025 net cash used in financing activities increased $1.4 billion when compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to lapping debt issuances in the prior fiscal year and increased share repurchases, partially offset by the purchase of certain noncontrolling interests in the prior fiscal year and higher short-term borrowings.
Purchase and Sale of Subsidiary Stoc
k
During fiscal 2024, we paid $3.5 billion to acquire shares from certain Flipkart noncontrolling interest holders and settle a $0.9 billion liability to former noncontrolling interest holders of PhonePe in connection with the separation from Flipkart in fiscal 2023. Additionally, we received $0.7 billion related to new rounds of equity funding for the Company's majority owned PhonePe subsidiary.
Short-term Borrowings
We generally utilize the liquidity provided by short-term borrowings to provide funding for our operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. The following table includes additional information related to our short-term borrowings for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2026
...
7,232
$
9,942
Average daily short-term borrowings
7,031
4,157
4,295
...
%
5.1
%
Short-term borrowings as of January 31, 2026 and 2025 were $6.6 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, with weighted-average interest rates of 4.0% and 5.3%, respectively. We also have $15.0 billion of various undrawn committed lines of credit in the U.S. as of January 31, 2026 that provide additional liquidity, if needed. Additionally, we maintain access to various credit facilities outside of the U.S. to further support our Walmart International segment operations, as needed.
As of January 31, 2026, we have $2.0 billion of syndicated and fronted letters of credit available, of which $1.7 billion was issued and represents an unrecorded current obligation.
Long-term Debt
The following table provides the changes in our long-term debt for fiscal 2026:
(Amounts in millions)
Long-term debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2025
$
...
33,401
$
35,999
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
—
3,983
3,983
Repayments of long-term debt
(2,625)
—
(2,625)
Reclassifications of long-term debt
3,569
(3,569)
—
...
34,624
$
38,166
Our total outstanding long-term debt increased $2.2 billion during fiscal 2026, primarily due to issuances of long-term debt. Refer to
Note 5
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the issuances of long-term debt.
Estimated contractual interest payments associated with our long-term debt amount to $17.3 billion, with approximately $1.7 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2027. Estimated interest payments are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding as of January 31, 2026, and assumes interest rates remain at current levels for our variable rate instruments.
43
Dividends
Our total dividend payments were $7.5 billion, $6.7 billion and $6.1 billion for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Effective February 19, 2026, the Company approved the fiscal 2027 annual dividend of $0.99 per share, an increase over the fiscal 2026 annual dividend of $0.94 per share. For fiscal 2027, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.2475 per share, according to the following record and payable dates:
Record Date
Payable Date
March 20, 2026
...
September 8, 2026
December 11, 2026
January 4, 2027
Company Share Repurchase Program
From time to time, the Company repurchases shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. All repurchases during fiscal 2026 were made under the $20.0 billion share repurchase program approved in November 2022, of which authorization for $4.0 billion of share repurchases remained as of January 31, 2026. In February 2026, the Board of Directors approved a new $30.0 billion share repurchase authorization, which has no expiration date or other restrictions limiting the period over which the Company can make repurchases, and beginning February 23, 2026, replaced the remaining capacity under the prior authorization.
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that a majority of the ongoing share repurchase program will be funded through the Company's free cash flow.
The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share and total amount paid for share repurchases for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2026
2025
2024
...
85.0
61.9
54.6
Average price paid per share
$
95.13
$
72.72
$
50.87
Total amount paid for share repurchases
$
8,088
$
4,494
$
2,779
During fiscal 2026, the Company repurchased $8.1 billion in shares of its common stock, an increase of $3.6 billion as compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. The increase was primarily driven by opportunistic prices during the first quarter of fiscal 2026 as part of the Company's long-term strategy.
Material Cash Requirements
Material cash requirements from operating activities primarily consist of inventory purchases, employee related costs, taxes, interest and other general operating expenses, which we expect to be primarily satisfied by our cash from operations. Other material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations include short-term borrowings, long-term debt and related interest payments, leases and purchase obligations. See
Note 4
,
Note 5
and
Note 6
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding accrued liabilities, outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and leases, respectively.
As of January 31, 2026, the Company has $41.4 billion of unrecorded purchase obligations outstanding, of which $18.3 billion is due within one year. Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts, such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition and license commitments and legally binding service contracts. Contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Contracts that specify the Company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product or service from a supplier, but do not include a fixed or minimum quantity, are excluded from the obligations quantified above. Accordingly, purchase orders for inventory are also excluded as purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.
44
Capital Resources
We believe our cash flows from operations, current cash position, short-term borrowings and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements and contractual obligations, which includes funding seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and funding our capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and share repurchases.
We have strong commercial paper and long-term debt ratings that have enabled and should continue to enable us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets. As of January 31, 2026, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:
Rating agency
Commercial paper
Long-term debt
Standard & Poor's
A-1+
AA
...
Fitch Ratings
F1+
AA
Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and therefore, the credit ratings assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Accordingly, we are not able to predict whether our current credit ratings will remain consistent over time. Factors that could affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the general economic environment, conditions in the retail industry, our financial position, including our total debt and capitalization, and changes in our business strategy. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs or impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper markets with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, potentially requiring us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. The credit rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.
Other Matters
In
Note 9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned "Contingencies" and appears in
Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
," we discuss, under the sub-captions "
Settlement of Certain Opioid-Related Matters,
"
and
"
Ongoing Opioid-Related Litigation,
" certain opioid-related matters, as well as the Prescription Opiate Litigation, and other matters, including certain risks arising therefrom. In that
Note 9
, we discuss "
Asda Equal Value Claims
"
the Company's indemnification obligation for the Asda Equal Value Claims matter, "
Money Transfer Agent Services Matter,"
a government investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania into the Company's consumer fraud prevention and anti-money laundering compliance related to the Company's money transfer agent services, as well as matters related to independent contractor drivers on the driver platform under "
Driver Platform Matters.
" In
Note 9
, under "
Mexico Antitrust Matter
," we also discuss a quasi-judicial administrative process initiated by COFECE against Walmex and Walmex's related constitutional challenge. In
Note 9
, we also discuss a show cause notice and requests issued by the Directorate of Enforcement to Flipkart regarding Foreign Direct Investment rules and regulations in India and an India Antitrust Matter. We reference various legal proceedings related to the Prescription Opiate Litigation, the DOJ Opioid Civil Litigation, Opioids-Related Securities Class Actions and False Claims Act Litigation; Asda Equal Value Claims; Money Transfer Agent Services Matter; Federal Trade Commission and State Attorneys General Driver Platform Litigation; Mexico Antitrust Matter and an India Antitrust Matter in
Part I
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
...
." The foregoing matters and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent contingent liabilities of the Company that may or may not result in the incurrence of a material liability by the Company upon their final resolution.
45
Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates
Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology. In preparing the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes. Actual results may differ from our estimates.
Management continually reviews our accounting policies including how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements. Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
Contingencies
We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. We record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made. Although we are not able to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate a range of possible losses in certain matters described in
Note
9
to our Consolidated Financial Statements and have not recorded an associated accrual related to these matters, an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Uncertain Tax Positions
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. Accordingly, the determination of our uncertain tax positions requires judgment, the use of estimates in certain cases and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair values of certain equity and equity method investments measured on a recurring basis.
The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. For fiscal 2026, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $0.2 billion primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
46
The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2026.
Expected Maturity Date
(Amounts in millions)
Fiscal 2027
...
Thereafter
Total
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
Variable rate
$
6,596
...
%
4.0
%
Long-term debt
(1)
:
Fixed rate
...
2.5
%
(1)
Includes deferred loan costs, discounts, fair value hedges, foreign-held debt and secured debt.
As of January 31, 2026, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 27% of our total short-term and long-term debt. Based on January 31, 2026 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $0.1 billion.
Foreign Currency Risk
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments and operations in countries other than the U.S., as well as our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt. For fiscal 2026, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets resulted in the $0.8 billion net gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps. The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $0.9 billion and $1.4 billion as of January 31, 2026 and January 31, 2025, respectively. The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily due to the strengthening of certain currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2026. The hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.7 billion. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2026 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $0.1 billion.
In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.
Investment Risk
We are exposed to investment risk primarily related to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments, including certain immaterial equity method investments where we have elected the fair value option, measured on a recurring basis. As of January 31, 2026, the fair value of these investments was $4.5 billion. Refer to
Note 7
for details. As of January 31, 2026, a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of such investments would have changed the fair value of such investments by approximately $0.4 billion.
47
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Consolidated Financial Statements of Walmart Inc.
For the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2026
Table of Contents
...
53
Consolidated Balance Sheets
54
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
55
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
56
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
57
48
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Walmart Inc. (the Company) as of January 31, 2026 and 2025, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2026, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "Consolidated Financial Statements"). In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at January 31, 2026 and 2025, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2026, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2026, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated March 13, 2026 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.
Contingencies
Description of the Matter
As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at January 31, 2026, the Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and certain regulatory matters. The Company records a liability for those legal proceedings and regulatory matters when management determines it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company also discloses when it is reasonably possible that a material loss may be incurred. In assessing the probability of occurrence and whether an estimate of loss can be reasonably estimated for a particular legal proceeding, management exercises judgment on matters relevant to each proceeding. Auditing management's accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies was complex and highly judgmental as it involved our assessment of the significant judgments made by management when assessing the probability of loss for contingencies or when determining whether an estimate of the loss or range of loss could be made.
49
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of contingencies. For example, we tested controls over the Company's assessment of the likelihood of loss and the Company's determinations regarding the measurement of loss.
To test the Company's assessment of the probability of loss or determination of an estimate of loss, or range of loss, among other procedures, we read the minutes of the meetings of the board of directors and committees of the board of directors, reviewed documents provided to the Company by certain outside legal counsel, read letters received directly by us from internal and outside legal counsel, evaluated the current status of contingencies based on discussions with internal legal counsel, and obtained representations from management. We also assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures.
/s/
Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969.
...
March 13, 2026
50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Walmart Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Walmart Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2026, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Walmart Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2026, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of January 31, 2026 and 2025, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2026, and the related notes and our report dated March 13, 2026 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Rogers, Arkansas
...
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2026
2025
2024
Revenues:
Net sales
$
706,413
$
674,538
$
642,637
Membership and other income
6,750
6,447
5,488
Total revenues
713,163
680,985
648,125
Costs and expenses:
Cost of sales
535,395
511,753
490,142
...
147,943
139,884
130,971
Operating income
29,825
29,348
27,012
Interest:
Debt
2,318
2,249
2,259
Finance lease
481
479
424
...
2,431
2,245
2,137
Other (gains) and losses
(
2,075
)
794
3,027
Income before income taxes
29,469
26,309
21,848
Provision for income taxes
7,199
6,152
5,578
Consolidated net income
22,270
20,157
16,270
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
377
)
...
(
759
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
$
21,893
$
19,436
$
15,511
Net income per common share:
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart
$
2.74
$
2.42
$
1.92
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart
2.73
2.41
1.91
...
7,983
8,041
8,077
Diluted
8,022
8,081
8,108
Dividends declared per common share
$
0.94
$
...
2026
2025
2024
Consolidated net income
$
22,270
$
20,157
$
16,270
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
377
)
...
(
759
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
21,893
19,436
15,511
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes
1,009
(
2,859
...
2,303
)
378
Comprehensive income, net of income taxes
23,279
17,298
17,214
...
Inventories
58,851
56,435
Prepaid expenses and other
4,124
4,011
Total current assets
84,874
79,458
Property and equipment, net
136,083
119,993
Operating lease right-of-use assets
14,750
13,599
Finance lease right-of-use assets, net
6,123
6,112
Goodwill
28,735
28,792
Other long-term assets
...
284,668
$
260,823
LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST, AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings
$
6,596
$
...
Accrued liabilities
31,187
29,345
Accrued income taxes
596
608
Long-term debt due within one year
3,542
2,598
Operating lease obligations due within one year
1,631
1,499
Finance lease obligations due within one year
856
800
Total current liabilities
107,469
96,584
Long-term debt
34,624
33,401
Long-term operating lease obligations
13,941
12,825
Long-term finance lease obligations
5,905
5,923
Deferred income taxes and other
16,549
14,398
Commitments and contingencies
Redeemable noncontrolling interest
293
271
Shareholders' equity:
Common stock
797
802
Capital in excess of par value
6,816
5,503
Retained earnings
104,774
98,313
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
...
(
13,605
)
Total Walmart shareholders' equity
99,617
91,013
Nonredeemable noncontrolling interest
6,270
6,408
Total shareholders' equity
105,887
97,421
Total liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interest, and shareholders' equity
$
284,668
$
...
See accompanying notes.
54
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
Accumulated
Total
Capital in
...
(Amounts in millions)
Common Stock
Excess of
Retained
Comprehensive
Shareholders'
Noncontrolling
Shareholders'
Shares
Amount
Par Value
...
7,061
$
83,754
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
15,511
774
16,285
Other comprehensive income, net of immaterial income taxes
Currency translation and other before reclassifications, net
—
—
...
64
—
64
Cash dividends declared ($
0.76
per share)
—
...
(
2,791
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
83,861
6,488
90,349
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
19,436
766
20,202
Other comprehensive loss, net of immaterial income taxes
Currency translation and other before reclassifications, net
—
—
...
56
—
56
Cash dividends declared ($
0.83
per share)
—
...
(
4,477
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
91,013
6,408
97,421
Consolidated net income
—
—
—
...
21,893
426
22,319
Other comprehensive income, net of immaterial income taxes
Currency translation and other before reclassifications, net
—
—
...
(
143
)
Cash dividends declared ($
0.94
per share)
—
...
(
8,080
)
Cash dividend declared to noncontrolling interest
—
—
—
...
See accompanying notes.
55
Walmart Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions)
2026
2025
2024
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated net income
$
22,270
$
20,157
$
16,270
Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization
14,203
12,973
11,853
Investment (gains) and losses, net
(
2,016
)
878
3,193
Deferred income taxes
2,277
(
635
...
4,079
2,889
2,642
Changes in certain assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Receivables, net
(
1,136
...
(
1,324
)
Accrued income taxes
113
435
(
...
41,565
36,443
35,726
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for property and equipment
(
26,642
)
...
(
20,606
)
Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
106
432
250
Proceeds from disposal of certain strategic investments
927
4,080
—
...
(
21,287
)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Net change in short-term borrowings
3,523
2,212
512
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
3,983
—
4,967
Repayments of long-term debt
(
2,625
)
...
(
4,217
)
Dividends paid
(
7,507
)
...
(
2,779
)
Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(
439
)
...
9,536
$
9,935
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Income taxes paid
$
5,364
$
5,884
$
5,879
Interest paid
2,793
2,739
2,519
...
Note 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart" or the "Company") is a people-led, technology-powered omnichannel retailer dedicated to helping people around the world save money and live better by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through eCommerce. Through innovation, the Company is striving to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates eCommerce and retail stores in an omnichannel offering that saves time for its customers.
The Company's operations comprise
three
reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club U.S.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2026 ("fiscal 2026"), January 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025") and January 31, 2024 ("fiscal 2024"). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company consolidates variable interest entities where it has been determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of those entities' operations. Investments in common stock or in-substance common stock for which the Company exercises significant influence but does not have control are accounted for under the equity method. These variable interest entities and equity method investments are immaterial to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for the United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. The Company consolidates all other operations generally using a one-month lag and based on a calendar year. There were no significant intervening events during the month of January 2026 related to the operations consolidated using a lag that materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Use of Estimates
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Management's estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Currency Translation
The functional currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is generally the local currency in which the subsidiary operates. The assets and liabilities of all international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currency to the U.S. dollar using exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. The Company's Consolidated Statements of Income of all international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currencies to the U.S. dollar using average exchange rates for the period covered by the income statements.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers investments with a maturity when purchased of three months or less to be cash equivalents. All credit card, debit card and electronic transfer transactions that process in less than seven days are classified as cash and cash equivalents. The amounts due from banks for these transactions classified as cash and cash equivalents totaled $
4.4
...
56
% and
62
% were held outside of the U.S., respectively. Cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company's non-U.S. operations.
The Company uses intercompany financing arrangements in an effort to ensure cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost possible.
As of January 31, 2026 and 2025, cash and cash equivalents of approximately $
3.9
billion and $
3.3
billion, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws, other restrictions or are subject to the approval of the noncontrolling interest shareholders.
57
Receivables
Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for credit losses, and are primarily due from the following: customers, which includes pharmacy insurance companies, advertisers, and banks for customer credit, debit cards and electronic transfer transactions that take in excess of seven days to process; suppliers for marketing or incentive programs; governments for income taxes; and real estate transactions.
Net receivables from transactions with customers were $
4.9
billion and $
4.4
billion as of January 31, 2026 and January 31, 2025, respectively.
Inventories
The Company utilizes various inventory methods to account for and value its inventories depending upon the nature of the store formats and businesses in each of its segments, resulting in inventories that are recorded at the lower of cost or market or net realizable value, as appropriate.
•
Walmart U.S. Segment - Inventories are primarily accounted for under the retail inventory method of accounting ("RIM") to determine inventory cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") valuation method. RIM generally results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market as permanent markdowns are immediately recorded as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.
•
Walmart International Segment – Depending on the store format in each market, inventories are generally accounted for using either the RIM or weighted-average cost method, using the first-in, first-out valuation method.
•
Sam's Club U.S. Segment - The majority of this segment's inventory is accounted for and valued using the weighted-average cost LIFO method.
For those segments that utilize the LIFO method, the Company records an adjustment each quarter, if necessary, for the projected annual effect of inflation or deflation. These estimates are adjusted to actual results determined at year end for inflation or deflation and inventory levels.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred. Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred
.
The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances and includes the estimated useful lives that are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
Estimated Useful Lives
As of January 31,
(Dollars in millions)
...
N/A
18,728
15,403
Property and equipment
256,421
231,617
Accumulated depreciation
...
(
111,624
)
Property and equipment, net
$
136,083
$
119,993
Leasehold improvements are depreciated or amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining expected lease term.
Total depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment, property under finance leases and intangible assets was $
14.2
billion, $
13.0
billion and $
11.9
billion for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Leases
The Company determines whether an arrangement is or contains a lease at the inception of the contract. The Company records right-of-use ("ROU") assets and lease obligations for its finance and operating leases, which are initially recognized based on the discounted future lease payments over the term of the lease. If the rate implicit in the Company's leases is not readily determinable, the Company's applicable incremental borrowing rate is used in calculating the present value of the sum of the lease payments.
Lease term is defined as the non-cancelable period of the lease plus any options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option. The Company has elected not to recognize ROU asset and lease obligations for its short-term leases, which are defined as leases with an initial term of 12 months or less.
For a majority of all classes of underlying assets, the Company has elected to not separate lease from non-lease components. For leases in which the lease and non-lease components have been combined, the variable lease expense includes expenses such as common area maintenance, utilities and repairs and maintenance.
58
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual store or club level. Undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the assets' useful lives based on updated projections. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, any potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the related asset or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique.
Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations and is allocated to the appropriate reporting unit when acquired. Other acquired intangible assets are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; rather, they are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired. Definite-lived intangible assets are considered long-lived assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the periods that expected economic benefits will be provided.
Goodwill is typically assigned to the reporting unit which consolidates the acquisition. Components within the same reportable segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are evaluated for impairment using either a qualitative or quantitative approach for each of the Company's reporting units. Generally, a qualitative assessment is first performed to determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary. If management determines, after performing an assessment based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, or that a fair value of the reporting unit substantially in excess of the carrying amount cannot be assured, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required. The quantitative test for goodwill impairment is performed by determining the fair value of the related reporting units. Fair value is measured based on the discounted cash flow method and relative market-based approaches. Management has performed its evaluation and determined the fair value of each reporting unit is significantly greater than the carrying amount and, accordingly, the Company has not recorded any impairment charges related to goodwill during fiscal 2026, fiscal 2025 or fiscal 2024.
The following table reflects goodwill activity, by reportable segment, for fiscal 2026 and 2025:
(Amounts in millions)
Walmart U.S.
Walmart
International
Sam's Club U.S.
Total
Balances as of February 1, 2024
...
$
28,735
(1)
Goodwill recorded in fiscal 2025 relates to the acquisition of VIZIO Holding Corp. in December 2024 within the Walmart U.S. segment.
Intangible assets are recorded in other long-term assets in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets
. As of January 31, 2026 and 2025, the Company had $
4.3
billion and $
4.5
billion, respectively, in indefinite-lived intangible assets which primarily consists of acquired trade names. There were no significant impairment charges related to intangible assets for fiscal 2026, 2025 or 2024.
Fair Value Measurement
The Company records and discloses certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The fair value of an asset is the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly transaction between unrelated, knowledgeable and willing parties able to engage in the transaction. The fair value of a liability is the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor in a transaction between such parties, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.
Refer to
Note 7
for more information.
Investments
Investments in equity securities are recorded in other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, as well as certain immaterial equity method investments where the Company has elected the fair value option, are measured on a recurring basis (generally using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy) and recognized within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Measurement of equity investments using Level 2 inputs is primarily based on quoted prices for similar securities in active markets. Equity investments without readily
59
determinable fair values are carried at cost and adjusted for any observable price changes or impairments within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Investments in debt securities classified as trading are reported at fair value and included in other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and adjustments in fair value are recorded within other gains and losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company's debt investments are immaterial and primarily relate to its retained investment in Asda, the Company's former retail operations in the U.K., the majority of which is mandatorily redeemable in fiscal 2029. The fair value is measured using Level 3 inputs and is primarily estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the remaining period until the mandatory redemption date at an appropriate discount rate reflecting Asda’s credit risk. Refer to
Note 7
for details.
Indemnification Liabilities
The Company has provided certain indemnifications in connection with previous divestitures and has recorded indemnification liabilities equal to the estimated fair value of the obligations.
As of January 31, 2026 and January 31, 2025, the Company had $
0.7
billion and $
0.6
billion, respectively, of certain legal indemnification liabilities recorded within deferred income taxes and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Maximum potential future payments under these indemnities was $
3.4
billion, based on exchange rates as of January 31, 2026.
Supplier Financing Program Obligations
...
30
and
90
days. The Company does not have an economic interest in a supplier's participation in the program or a direct financial relationship with the financial institution funding the program. The Company is responsible for ensuring that participating financial institutions are paid according to the terms negotiated with the supplier, regardless of whether the supplier elects to receive early payment from the financial institution
.
The rollforward of the Company's outstanding payment obligations to financial institutions under these programs is as follows:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
...
Invoices confirmed during the year
40,342
41,335
Confirmed invoices paid during the year
(
40,062
)
...
5,725
These obligations are generally classified as
accounts payable
within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The activity related to these programs is classified as an operating activity within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Self-Insurance Reserves
The Company self-insures a number of risks, including, but not limited to, general liability, workers' compensation, auto liability, product liability and certain employee-related healthcare benefits. Standard actuarial procedures and data analysis are used to estimate the liabilities associated with these risks on an undiscounted basis. The recorded liabilities reflect the ultimate cost for claims incurred but not paid and any estimable administrative run-out expenses related to the processing of these outstanding claim payments. On a regular basis, the liabilities are evaluated for appropriateness with claims reserve valuations. To limit exposure to some risks, the Company maintains insurance coverage with varying limits and retentions, including stop-loss insurance coverage for general liability, workers' compensation and auto liability. Refer to
Note 4
for the self-insurance reserves which are recorded in accrued liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
60
Derivatives
The Company uses derivatives for hedging purposes to manage its exposure to changes in interest and currency exchange rates, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed- and variable-rate debt. Use of derivatives in hedging programs subjects the Company to certain risks, such as market and credit risks. The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by its counterparties to derivatives. Credit risk is monitored through established approval procedures, including setting concentration limits by counterparty, reviewing credit ratings and requiring collateral from the counterparty. The Company enters into derivatives with counterparties rated generally "A-" or better by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The Company is subject to master netting arrangements which provides set-off and close-out netting of exposures with counterparties, but the Company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company's collateral arrangements require the counterparty in a net liability position in excess of pre-determined thresholds, after considering the effects of netting arrangements, to pledge cash collateral. Cash collateral received from counterparties and cash collateral provided to counterparties under these arrangements was not significant as of January 31, 2026 and 2025.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge. If a derivative is recorded using hedge accounting, depending on the nature of the hedge, derivative gains and losses are recorded through the same financial statement line item in earnings or are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, or contracts for which the Company has not elected hedge accounting, are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in earnings. Derivatives with an unrealized gain are recorded in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as either current or non-current assets, based on maturity date, and derivatives with an unrealized loss are recorded as either current or non-current liabilities, based on maturity date. Refer to
Note 7
for the presentation of the Company's derivative assets and liabilities.
Fair Value Hedges
The Company is a party to receive fixed-rate, pay variable-rate interest rate swaps that the Company uses to hedge the fair value of fixed-rate debt. All interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of the related long-term debt meet the shortcut method requirements under GAAP. Accordingly, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps are considered to exactly offset changes in the fair value of the underlying long-term debt. These derivatives will mature on dates ranging from September 2028 to September 2031.
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company is a party to receive fixed-rate, pay fixed-rate cross currency interest rate swaps used to hedge the currency exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of certain non-U.S. denominated debt. The Company records changes in the fair value of these swaps in accumulated other comprehensive loss which is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. These derivatives will mature on dates ranging from April 2026 to January 2039.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the balance sheet method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases ("temporary differences"). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent that a portion is not more likely than not to be realized. Many factors are considered when assessing whether it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, including recent cumulative earnings, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods, and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. The recoverability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely on estimates.
In determining the provision for income taxes, an annual effective income tax rate is used based on annual income, permanent differences between book and tax income, and statutory income tax rates. Discrete events such as audit settlements or changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which they occur.
The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company records interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively, in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. Refer to
Note
8
for additional income tax disclosures.
61
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest
The Company has a redeemable noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary within the Walmart U.S. segment. The minority interest owner holds a put option which, if exercised, would require the Company to purchase the underlying shares at fair value beginning in December 2027, with annual options thereafter. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are initially recorded at fair value and adjusted each reporting period for income, loss and any distributions made, and are then generally remeasured to the greater of the redemption value or the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest. Remeasurements to the redemption value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest are recognized in capital in excess of par.
Revenue Recognition
Net Sales
The Company recognizes sales revenue, net of sales taxes and estimated sales returns, at the time it sells merchandise or provides services to the customer. eCommerce sales include shipping revenue and are recorded upon delivery to the customer. Estimated sales returns are calculated based on expected returns.
Financial, Advertising and Other Services
The Company recognizes revenue from service transactions at the time the service is performed. Generally, revenue from services is classified as a component of net sales in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.
Membership and Other Income
Membership and other income primarily includes membership fee revenue associated with the Company's various membership offerings for customers and members across each reportable segment. Membership fee revenue is recognized over the term of the membership, which are generally one year, although certain offerings are month-to month. Membership fee revenue was $
4.4
billion, $
3.8
billion and $
3.1
billion for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Deferred membership fee revenue is included in accrued liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, membership and other income includes items such as rental and tenant income, recycling income, and gift card breakage income.
Gift Cards
Customer purchases of gift cards are not recognized as sales until the card is redeemed and the customer purchases merchandise using the gift card, thus a liability for deferred gift card revenue is recorded within accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to
Note 4
. Gift cards in the U.S. and some countries do not carry an expiration date; therefore, customers and members can redeem their gift cards for merchandise and services indefinitely. Gift cards in some countries where the Company does business have expiration dates. While gift cards are generally redeemed within 12 months, a certain number of gift cards, both with and without expiration dates, will not be fully redeemed. Management estimates unredeemed balances and recognizes gift card breakage income for these amounts in membership and other income in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income over the expected redemption period.
Cost of Sales
Cost of sales includes costs of merchandise sold and services performed; costs of transporting merchandise to the Company's distribution facilities, stores, clubs, and customers; and also includes warehousing costs for the Sam's Club U.S. segment and import distribution centers. Cost of sales is reduced by supplier payments, except in certain situations as described below.
Payments from Suppliers
The Company receives consideration from suppliers for various programs, primarily volume incentives, warehouse allowances and reimbursements for specific programs such as markdowns, margin protection, certain advertising arrangements and supplier-specific fixtures. Payments from suppliers are accounted for as a reduction of cost of sales and recognized in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold, except in situations when the payment is in exchange for a distinct good or service or a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs.
Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses include all operating costs of the Company (except cost of sales, as described above), which comprise substantially all labor-related, depreciation and amortization, maintenance and repairs, utilities, and other general operating costs incurred in stores, clubs and other facilities. The majority of the cost of warehousing and occupancy for the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments' distribution facilities is included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses. Because the Company only includes a portion of the cost of its Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments' distribution facilities in cost of sales, its gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales may not be comparable to those of other retailers that may include all costs related to their distribution facilities in cost of sales and in the calculation of gross profit.
62
As a result, the Company’s cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for each of its reportable segments may not be comparable to those of other retailers.
Advertising Costs
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred, and consist primarily of digital, television and print advertisements that are recorded in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.
Advertising costs were $
5.4
billion, $
5.1
...
4.4
billion for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Other Comprehensive Income
Other comprehensive income or loss is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of shareholders' equity and primarily consists of foreign currency translation adjustments from foreign subsidiaries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, as well as unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges which are not significant. Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings primarily relate to cross-currency swaps to hedge the changes in cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated debt and are recorded against the hedged item in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. Certain amounts are also reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings and are recorded against the hedged item in interest, net in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09,
Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures
, which expands the requirements for income tax disclosures in order to provide greater transparency. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. The amendments should be applied prospectively, although optional retrospective application is permitted. Management has adopted the amendments prospectively for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2026. See
Note
8
for the expanded disclosures.
In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03,
Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses
, which requires incremental disclosures about specific expense categories, including but not limited to, purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation, amortization and selling expenses. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2026, and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2027. Early adoption is permitted and the amendments may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively. Management is currently evaluating this ASU to determine its impact on the Company's disclosures. The amendments only impact disclosures and are not expected to have an impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Note 2.
Net Income Per Common Share
Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average common shares outstanding during the relevant period. Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average common shares outstanding during the relevant period adjusted for the dilutive effect of share-based awards as determined under the treasury stock method. The Company did not have significant share-based awards outstanding that were antidilutive and not included in the calculation of diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart for fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators used to determine basic and diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart:
Fiscal Years Ended January 31,
(Amounts in millions, except per share data)
2026
2025
2024
Numerator
Consolidated net income
$
22,270
$
20,157
$
16,270
Consolidated net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
(
377
)
...
(
759
)
Consolidated net income attributable to Walmart
[Total relevant lines: 4519]
